The spacecraft was sent to asteroid 433 Eros, which is one of numerous asteroids whose orbits approach that of Earth. These are relatively easy to get to, therefore requiring less fuel than do asteroids way out in the main belt between Mars and Jupiter. Eros, 33 x 13 x 13 kilometers, looks like a giant peanut. 
Answer by Asialee123. Confidence votes 6. The typical composition of an asteroid depends on its distance from the Sun. At the outer edges of the asteroid belt, that is between three and three and a half times further from the Sun than the Earth, over eighty percent of the asteroids are known as C-type. The C stands for carbon and the surfaces of these asteroids are almost coal-black
The Asteroid Belt (also known as the Main Belt) is a large region  of asteroids (small rocky or metallic bodies) that lies between the  orbits of Mars and Jupiter.    … It formed out of the proton planetary disk which orbited the Sun  during the early years of the Solar System. The main Asteroid Belt in the solar system is located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It contains many millions of rocky objects and dust particles, and the dwarf plan … et Ceres (formerly considered simply the largest of the asteroids).
The vast majority of asteroids in the solar system are found in a region of the solar system out beyond Mars. They form the Asteroid Belt. Others orbit in near-Earth space and a few migrate or are thrown out to the outer solar system by gravitational interactions. 1 The Asteroid Belt contains billions and billions of asteroids. 2  Some asteroids in the Belt are quite large, but most range in size down to pebbles. 3  The asteroid 1/Ceres is also designated as a dwarf planet, the largest one in the inner solar system. 4  We know of at least 7,000
The asteroid belt formed from the primordial solar nebula as a group of planetesimals, the smaller precursors of the planets, which in turn formed protoplanets. Ceres, the asteroid belt's only dwarf planet, is about 950 km in diameter, whereas Vesta, Pallas, and Hygiea have mean diameters of less than 600 km. The remaining bodies range down to the size of a dust particle.
An asteroid’s composition is mainly determined by how close it is to the Sun. The asteroids that are nearest the Sun are mostly made of carbon, with smaller amounts of nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen, while the ones further away are made up of silicate rock. Silicates are very common on Earth and in the Solar System. Generally, there are three main types of asteroids: 1  Dark C (carbonaceous) asteroids, which make up most asteroids and are in the outer belt. 2  They’re believed to be close to the Sun’s composition, with little hydrogen or helium or other “volatile” elements.
Composition of Asteroids. Even before a spacecraft went into orbit around an asteroid, astronomers had a good idea of what asteroids are made of. They could use telescopes to measure the colors, reflectivity, and spectra of asteroids. Combined with radar data, this allowed them to estimate their mineral propertie
The asteroid belt is the region of the Solar System located roughly between the orbits of the planets Mars and Jupiter. Ceres, the asteroid belt's only dwarf planet, is about 950 km in diameter, whereas Vesta, Pallas, and Hygiea have mean diameters of less than 600 km. The remaining bodies range down to the size of a dust particle.
The first is by composition. The typical composition of an asteroid depends on its distance from the Sun. At the outer edges of the asteroid belt, that is between three and three and a half times further from the Sun than the Earth, over eighty percent of the asteroids are known as C-type. From piles of 'rubble' to complex mixtures of metals, and carbon and silicon compounds, asteroids are not just dull grey lumps of cratered rock... We find that asteroids are fascinating objects, varying in composition and shape.