Leaving your phone to re-charge overnight is convenient—you're able to wake up in the morning to a full phone battery that will last through the workday and into the evening. But leaving your phone plugged in after reaching 100 percent is not best for your phone's battery long-term.
Story Highlights. 1  Any laptop that is awake should charge a device that's plugged into it. 2  Things can get trickier if the laptop is asleep. 3  If you've plugged a phone into a laptop, be sure to verify that it is actually charging.
If your MacBook Pro becomes unusually hot after you leave it plugged in overnight, unplug it and let it cool down, then take it to a certified Apple repair specialist. This is usually not a problem with modern MacBooks, but older MacBook batteries can degrade over time, and the lengthy charge can create unwanted heat.
Try to keep your laptop as cool as possible. The best technique here is to charge up your battery when the computer is turned off. When your laptop is turned on and plugged in, you should pull the battery out of your computer. Yes, pull it out.
Hot air generated by the computer can build up and damage the internal components, leading to costly repairs and replacements. If you plan to leave your laptop plugged in and turned on or charging, place it on a hard surface that allows the vents of the computer to displace the hot air.
1 Any laptop that is awake should charge a device that's plugged into it. 2  Things can get trickier if the laptop is asleep. 3  If you've plugged a phone into a laptop, be sure to verify that it is actually charging.
Having a battery fully charged and the laptop plugged in is not harmful, because as soon as the charge level reaches 100% the battery stops receiving charging energy and this energy is bypassed directly to the power supply system of the laptop.
Don't use your phone while it's charging, don't leave it plugged in overnight and always let it die completely — these are just a few popular myths about smartphone batteries. When it comes to battery life, there are many little rules for what you can and can't do with your smartphone.
Keeping a laptop plugged in for an extended amount of time or when you're not charging the computer can damage the battery. The CEO of Cadex Electronics, Isidor Buchmann, recommends charging the battery to 80 percent capacity and then unplugging it.
The only way for the Li-ion battery to overcharge is if the charging system malfunctions, and then the battery will heat up while in the charger. If you don't plan to use your laptop for long period of time, you can extend the life of your lithium ion laptop battery by storing it with a 50 percent charge.