Glacial Ginseng Co. Has Goldenseal Root Rhizomes for an additional crop, which grows under the same conditions as Our Glacial Gold Ginseng. Glacial Ginseng Co. has now, for immediate delivery, Goldenseal Roots for transplanting. Goldenseal Planting Time Mar. 15th to Dec. 15th. 
Overview. Goldenseal and goldenseal root have been used by Native Americans as a dye and for their herbal medicinal properties since antiquity. Goldenseal is a perennial herb in the buttercup family. It is native to Canada and the eastern United States and generally grows best in those areas. It was cited by the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1905 as a medicinal herb with potential for cultivation.
Over the years, goldenseal has been referred to by a large number of other names, including yellowroot, ground raspberry, yellow puccoon, wild circuma, eye-balm, yellow paint, wild turmeric, and yelloweye. Unfortunately, high demand for goldenseal has caused a serious reduction in native populations. Propagation. Goldenseal can be propagated from rhizome pieces, root cuttings, one year old seedlings, or seed. It takes 5 to 7 years to grow harvestable roots from seed and 3 to 5 years to grow harvestable roots from rhizome pieces. Root cuttings or seedlings usually take 4 to 6 year
North Carolina Ginseng & Goldenseal Company is a state licensed Ginseng Dealer, was formed in 1993, and is located in Madison County. Our Company has active re-seeding programs for Ginseng and Goldenseal, both companion plants often found in the same growing area. We buy and sell Ginseng and Goldenseal.
Goldenseal is a difficult plant to grow and can take two years to bloom. If you are planning on harvesting the goldenseal roots, they should be ready for harvest and replanting three to four years after the initial planting. It is native to Canada and the eastern United States and generally grows best in those areas. It was cited by the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1905 as a medicinal herb with potential for cultivation.
Orangeroot redirects here. For other uses, see Orange-root. Goldenseal (Hydrastis canadensis), also called orangeroot or yellow puccoon, is a perennial herb in the buttercup family Ranunculaceae, native to southeastern Canada and the eastern United States. It may be distinguished by its thick, yellow knotted rootstock. Goldenseal is often used to boost the medicinal effects of other herbs with which it is blended or formulated.
Goldenseal is often used as a multi-purpose remedy, and is thought to possess many different medicinal properties. In addition to being used as a topical antimicrobial, it is also taken internally as a digestion aid. Goldenseal may be purchased in salve, tablet, tincture form, or as a bulk powder. Goldenseal is often used to boost the medicinal effects of other herbs with which it is blended or formulated.
Mayapple-Podophyllum peltatum-Perennial growing 1-2 feet high in moist woods and clearings, can grow in 100% shade to 50% shade, does best with 70% shade. Umbrella-like leaves that are waxy emerge in early April, and a white flower follows, April-May. 
Goldenseal has been cultivated since the early 1900's and many of the current recommendations for growing goldenseal are surprisingly consistent with those found in a 1914 USDA Farmers' Bulletin. The best success with goldenseal will probably be obtained in areas where goldenseal is native. Propagation. Goldenseal can be propagated from rhizome pieces, root cuttings, one year old seedlings, or seed. It takes 5 to 7 years to grow harvestable roots from seed and 3 to 5 years to grow harvestable roots from rhizome pieces. Root cuttings or seedlings usually take 4 to 6 years