– Resolutions of the Stamp Act Congress, 1765. Taxation in this manner and the Quartering Act (which required the American colonies to provide food and shelter for British troops) were soundly thrashed in colonial assemblies.
The Stamp Act Congress, which was the first united action by the colonies against unpopular British policies, acknowledged that Parliament had a right to regulate colonial trade. It denied, however, that Parliament had the power to tax the colonies, since the colonies were unrepresented in Parliament. The power of taxation resided only with the colonists themselves and their representatives. Under pressure from London merchants, Parliament abolished the Stamp Act in 1766.
The Stamp Act Controversy. When Britain repealed the Stamp Act in 1766 — only a year after it had been issued — colonists celebrated in the streets, as this satirical cartoon from 1766 depicts. Something was dreadfully wrong in the American colonies.
The Stamp Act. When Parliament passed the Stamp Act in March 1765, things changed. It was the first direct tax on the American colonies. Every legal document had to be written on specially stamped paper, showing proof of payment.
The Stamp Act of 1765 New Taxes Anger Colonists, Riots Break Out in the 13 Colonies I n 1763, England had a very large debt from fighting the Seven Years War. In order to raise money to pay off this debt, King George III and the English Parliament began taxing the thirteen colonies.
The Declaration of Rights and Grievances was issued by the Stamp Act Congress in New York City in October 1765. It set forth what was to become the battle cry of the colonists -- no taxation without representation. The Stamp Act, enacted by the British Parliament in 1765, was essentially a tax on the colonies.
This was known as the Stamp Act Congress, and nine of the thirteen colonies were in attendance. One of their biggest complaints was that no representatives from the colonies had been invited to England to discuss the creation of the new taxes.
The Stamp Act of 1765 was not the first attempt to tax the American colonies. Parliament had passed the Sugar Act and Currency Act the previous year. Because tax was collected at ports though, it was easily circumvented. Indirect taxes such as these were also much less visible to the consumer.