Bile is a compound that aids in the digestion of fat and eliminates waste products from the blood. Peristalsis (contractions) is also at work in this organ, moving food through and mixing it up with digestive secretions. The mouth is the beginning of the digestive tract. In fact, digestion starts here as soon as you take the first bite of a meal. Chewing breaks the food into pieces that are more easily digested, while saliva mixes with food to begin the process of breaking it down into a form your body can absorb and use.
The human body has some very important organs in the digestive system which can be classified as the auxiliary organs. Even though these organs are not a part of the digestive system, without them the process of digestion would become almost impossible. Liver: The liver is one of the most important organs of the human body. The liver basically performs the task of producing digestive juices, biochemicals and also helps in protein synthesis. Pancreas: The pancreas secretes enzymes into the duodenum which breaks down the fats, carbohydrates and protein.
The large, hollow organs of the digestive system contain muscle that enables their walls to move. The movement of organ walls can propel food and liquid and also can mix the contents within each organ. Typical movement of the esophagus, stomach, and intestine is called peristalsis. Digestion is the process by which food and drink are broken down into their smallest parts so that the body can use them to build and nourish cells and to provide energy. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
Stomach. The stomach is a sac-like organ with strong muscular walls. In addition to holding the food, it's also a mixer and grinder. The stomach secretes acid and powerful enzymes that continue the process of breaking down the food. When it leaves the stomach, food is the consistency of a liquid or paste. The mouth is the beginning of the digestive tract. In fact, digestion starts here as soon as you take the first bite of a meal. Chewing breaks the food into pieces that are more easily digested, while saliva mixes with food to begin the process of breaking it down into a form your body can absorb and use.
The stomach is not the only part of your digestive system that absorbs food but rather is a part of the digestive system and important for churning food into a consistency that is easier to digest for the rest of your intestines. 1 The churning action of the stomach muscles physically breaks down the food. 2  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 3  The enzyme pepsin is responsible for protein breakdown. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner.
In the mouth, stomach, and small intestine, the mucosa contains tiny glands that produce juices to help digest food. There are also two solid digestive organs, the liver and the pancreas, which produce juices that reach the intestine through small tubes. In addition, parts of other organ systems (for instance, nerves and blood) play a major role in the digestive system. Digestion is the process by which food and drink are broken down into their smallest parts so that the body can use them to build and nourish cells and to provide energy. The digestive system is a series of hollow organs joined in a long, twisting tube from the mouth to the anus.
The digestive system is made up by the alimentary canal, or the digestive tract, and other abdominal organs that play a part in digestion such as the liver and the pancreas. The alimentary canal is the long tube of organs that runs from the mouth (where the food enters) to the anus (where indigestible waste leaves). The organs in the alimentary canal include the mouth(for mastication),esophagus, stomach and the intestines. The average adult digestive tract is about thirty feet (30') long. While in the digestive tract the food is really passing through the body rather than being in the body.
Storage. The stomach, gallbladder, and pancreas all function together as storage organs of the digestive system. The stomach stores food that has been ingested and releases it in small masses to the duodenum. 
The liver and bile. Producing bile and detoxification are the important digestion-related roles that the liver plays. Bile is a bitter-to-taste fluid that is produced in the liver. It ranges in color from yellowish-green to dark brown. It is composed of water, bile salts, bilirubin cholesterol, and inorganic salts. The liver plays an important role in fat digestion as well as the production of fats needed for the function of different organs of the body. Simple sugars are created in the liver by breaking down both proteins as well as more complex sugars known as glycogen.
Large intestine: Also known as the large bowel, the large intestine is a highly specialized organ of the digestive system. Its main function is to absorb the remaining water from the indigestible food matter and pass unwanted waste matter from the body. Liver: The liver is one of the most important organs of the human body. The liver basically performs the task of producing digestive juices, biochemicals and also helps in protein synthesis. Pancreas: The pancreas secretes enzymes into the duodenum which breaks down the fats, carbohydrates and protein.