pulmonary trunk-the artery that carries venous blood from the right ventricle of the heart and divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries. Noun. 1. pulmonary trunk-the artery that carries venous blood from the right ventricle of the heart and divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries. truncus pulmonalis. arteria pulmonalis, pulmonary artery-one of two arteries (branches of the pulmonary trunk) that carry venous blood from the heart to the lung
The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. It is one of the only arteries (other than the umbilical arteries in the fetus) that carries deoxygenated blood. In the human heart, the pulmonary trunk (pulmonary artery or main pulmonary artery) begins at the base of the right ventricle. It is short and wide—approximately 5 centimetres (2.0 in) in length and 3 centimetres (1.2 in) in diameter
• PULMONARY TRUNK (noun). The noun PULMONARY TRUNK has 1 sense: 1. the artery that carries venous blood from the right ventricle of the heart and divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries. Familiarity information: PULMONARY TRUNK used as a noun is very rare.
The pulmonary trunk is a major vessel of the human heart that originates from the right ventricle. It branches into the right and left pulmonary arteries, which lead to the lungs. Each of these vessels has elastic walls similar to those of the aorta, though somewhat thinner, and they are considered to be arteries even though the blood they carry is not oxygenated. The trunk itself is relatively short and wide. It then travels back to the left side of the heart to be distributed throughout the body. The right ventricle must first pump the blood to force it through the pulmonary valve and into the pulmonary trunk, which is the only outlet
The pulmonary trunk is a blood vessel which divides to form the right and left pulmonary arteries. At the base of this trunk is a pulmonary semilunar valve that is made up of three leaflets or cusps. 
Pulmonary trunk: A vessel that arises from the right ventricle of the heart, extends upward, and divides into the right and left pulmonary arteries that convey unaerated blood to the lungs. When the right ventricle contacts, the blood inside it is put under pressure and the tricuspid valve between the right atrium and ventricle closes. The only exit for blood from the right ventricle is then through the pulmonary trunk.
pulmonary trunk a vessel arising from the conus arteriosus of the right ventricle and bifurcating into the right and left pulmonary arteries. sympathetic trunk two long ganglionated nerve strands, one on each side of the vertebral column, extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx. n. An arterial trunk with origin from the right ventricle of the heart, and dividing into the right and left pulmonary arteries, which enter the corresponding lungs and branch with the bronchi.
pulmonary trunk. n. An arterial trunk with origin from the right ventricle of the heart, and dividing into the right and left pulmonary arteries, which enter the corresponding lungs and branch with the bronchi.