Hello Dee! If he’s wearing a black tuxedo with a red tie, and she’s wearing a black dress, she can still match him with red accessories. Examples are red/black shoes, red handbag, red throw, etc. But the most practical thing would probably be for him to get your daughter a red wrist corsage. 
Matching Shoes with a Navy Blazer. Brown suede dress shoes match the navy blue blazer in versatility, and anything that looks good with the latter will too with the former (although neither are typically worn by the English). Black shoes, other than oxfords and wingtips, are also fine complements. A men’s dress shirt with a button-down collar and gray flannels are also worthy accompaniments for a blazer; add a tie to take it up a notch. A point collar shirt formalizes the ensemble a tad more, and here one should stop.
Dresses with Jackets. A matching jacket adds an extra fashion dimension to any dress. Long evening dresses with jackets are an excellent choice for sophisticated formal events. Jacket dresses that cover the shoulders are perfect for church ceremonies. 
Find a glamourous shoe to match. Similarly, if you’re looking for shoes for a casual sundress, choose a pair of casual shoes. With your red wrap dress, you’re looking for a shoe that’s as classically sophisticated as your dress is. (1) Match your red dress with a pair of red shoes. But don’t match the shades exactly–it looks like you’re trying too hard. (2) Add some sparkle with a pair of metallic shoes. The beauty of metallic shoes is their versatility, since they pair with outfits of any color.
So my friend and I are deadlocked in a debate over how to best match your shoes with a sports jacket and khakis... Both of us have found people who side with us on the debate, so we need your advice. I just recently bought a great slim sports jacket, which is a dark charcoal grey and has a thin light pinstripe. I say that since my jacket is grey, my belt therefore should be black, and thus my shoes should also be black. But my friend says that black shoes on light khaki pants looks awkward, and that it is better to match brown shoes to khaki pants.
However on the precedent (as it were) of black shoes being worn with strollers and morning dress-both of which involve non-matching jackets and trousers-I would suggest that black shoes are acceptable with grey or black jackets worn with grey trousers (what else would you wear them with?). I say that since my jacket is grey, my belt therefore should be black, and thus my shoes should also be black. But my friend says that black shoes on light khaki pants looks awkward, and that it is better to match brown shoes to khaki pants.
You can go all neutral and pair it with a camel colored top, denim, and camel colored booties. Or add a feminine touch by wearing it over a pink or floral printed dress. You can pull the outfit together by wearing olive colored shoes to match the jacket or pull from one of the colors in the dress. Also, wearing it with white is a hot look! Do something like a thin white sweater with a pair of white skinnies and you are ready to go. Match your other clothes to these. If the jacket is more dressy then wear smoother fabrics. For example indigo blue jeans in a fine denim and a dark red shirt in an oxford cotton. If it is more workwear then rougher jeans (Again, dark blue is probably best) and a chunky cream sweater, for example.
A Black Dress Shirt matching one’s Black Suit and then wearing a completely opposite bright colored print tie is an absolutely awesome look and a good alternate to wearing a white dress shirt with the Black Suit and different color tie. You still have the contrast of the expensive tie against the suit. 
Pick out matching shoes. The shoes you choose for prom should work with the color and style of your dress. Generally, you'll want to pick out your dress before you pick out the shoes you want to wear with it. When you choose shoes, keep in mind that they need to be comfortable enough to walk and dance in all night. Decide between a tuxedo jacket and a dark suit jacket. Prom is a semi-formal event, so you'll either need a tuxedo jacket or a suit jacket that can mimic the tuxedo look. An actual tuxedo jacket will make you look sharper, but suit jackets are the cheaper option.