Virginia Apgar invented the Apgar score in 1952 as a method to quickly summarize the health of newborn children. Apgar was an anesthesiologist who developed the score in order to ascertain the effects of obstetric anesthesia on babies. The Apgar scale is determined by evaluating the newborn baby on five simple criteria on a scale from zero to two, then summing up the five values thus obtained. The resulting Apgar score ranges from zero to 10.
The first Apgar score helps your practitioner decide whether your baby needs immediate medical help. If your baby scores between 7 and 10, it usually means he's in good shape and doesn't need more than routine post-delivery care. (Don't be disappointed if your baby doesn't score a perfect 10. The five-minute Apgar score. The second score helps your practitioner see how your baby is progressing and whether he has responded to any initial medical intervention. A score of 7 to 10 is still considered normal at this point.
At one-minute, a baby’s APGAR score indicates to a doctor (or midwife) how well the baby tolerated the process of birth. At five minutes, the second score demonstrates how well the baby is doing in the world outside the mother’s womb. The APGAR test is a vital check-up for newborn babies to assess health and well-being based on Appearance, Pulse, Grimace, Activity, and Respiration.
At the one minute APGAR, scores between seven and ten indicate that the baby will need only routine post delivery care. Scores between four and six indicate that some assistance for breathing might be required. Scores under four can call for prompt, lifesaving measures. At the five minute APGAR, a score of seven to ten is normal. If the score falls below seven, the baby will continue to be monitored and retested every five minutes for up to twenty minutes. 
A perfect Apgar score of 10 means an infant is in the best possible condition. An infant with an Apgar score of 0-3 needs immediate resuscitation. It is important to note that diligent care of the newborn is an immediate response to the current status of the infant. It is inappropriate to wait until Apgar scores are obtained to begin or continue to address the needs of the neonate. The persistence of low (0-3) Apgar scores at 20 minutes of age is predictive of high rates of morbidity (disease) and mortality (death).
The Apgar score isn't designed to predict your baby's long-term health or development (ACOG 2006) . Remember, if your baby has a low score at five minutes she may still be perfectly healthy, as most babies are. The Apgar score is only one measure of your newborn's health. There will be further checks and examinations over the coming weeks which will assess your baby's health (NICE 2014) . Find out how your health visitor will check your baby is growing well. But in most cases: If your baby achieves a low score, the Apgar score will be used again later and until your baby is in a good and stable condition (NCCWCH 2014) . Perhaps, but we don't know for sure. Most babies with a low Apgar score beyond the first minute of life recover quickly and go on to do well (Kent 2011) .
The Apgar score is a simple assessment of how a baby is doing at birth, which helps determine whether your newborn is ready to meet the world without additional medical assistance. Your practitioner will do this quick evaluation one minute and five minutes after your baby is born. The five-minute Apgar score. The second score helps your practitioner see how your baby is progressing and whether he has responded to any initial medical intervention. A score of 7 to 10 is still considered normal at this point.
191 Followers. A. A perfect Apgar score of 10 means an infant is in the best possible condition. An infant with an Apgar score of 0-3 needs immediate resuscitation. It is important to note that diligent care of the newborn is an immediate response to the current status of the infant