S. pneumoniae is a member of the Streptococcus mitis-Streptococcus oralis group (the Smit group) of viridans group streptococci, which includes S. mitis, S. oralis, Streptococcus cristatus, Streptococcus infantis, and Streptococcus peroris. The relationship of the type strains of 12 species of viridans group streptococci, including the S. mitis, S. oralis, and Streptococcus sanguinis groups and S. pneumoniae, with the Streptococcus pyogenes type strain representing the genus is shown in Fig. 2.
S. pneumoniae is one of the most common causes of bacterial meningitis in adults and young adults, along with Neisseria meningitidis, and is the leading cause of bacterial meningitis in adults in the USA. It is also one of the top two isolates found in ear infection, otitis media. A significant human pathogenic bacterium, S. pneumoniae was recognized as a major cause of pneumonia in the late 19th century, and is the subject of many humoral immunity studies. S. pneumoniae resides asymptomatically in the nasopharynx of healthy carriers.
Abstract. Streptococcus pneumoniae is a major pathogen of humans, causing diseases such as pneumonia and meningitis. The organism produces several virulence factors that are involved in the disease process. The molecular basis of the action of some of these virulence factors is being elucidated. 
Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) are lancet-shaped, gram-positive, facultative anaerobic bacteria with over 90 known serotypes. Most S. pneumoniae serotypes have been shown to cause disease, but only a minority of serotypes produce the majority of pneumococcal infections. 
Accuracy of phenotypic and genotypic testing for identification of Streptococcus pneumoniae and description of Streptococcus pseudopneumoniae sp. nov. Arbique JC, Poyart C, Trieu-Cuot P, Quesne G, Carvalho Mda G, Steigerwalt AG, Morey RE, Jackson D, Davidson RJ, Facklam RR. 
Streptococcus pneumoniae, or pneumococcus, is a Gram-positive, alpha-hemolytic, facultative anaerobic member of the genus Streptococcus. A significant human pathogenic bacterium, S. pneumoniae was recognized as a major cause of pneumonia in the late 19th century, and is the subject of many humoral immunity studies. S. pneumoniae resides asymptomatically in the nasopharynx of healthy carriers.
Streptococcus pneumo´niae a small, slightly elongated, encapsulated coccus, one end of which is pointed or lance-shaped; the organisms commonly occur in pairs. This is the most common cause of lobar pneumonia, and it also causes serious forms of meningitis, septicemia, empyema, and peritonitis. Normal inhabitants of the respiratory tract, and the most common cause of lobar pneumonia, they are the most common causative agents of meningitis, and pneumonia worldwide, and also cause otitis media, sinusitis, and other infections. It is the type species of the former genus Diplococcus.
Group A strep (S. pyogenes) are the most common bacterial cause of acute pharyngitis (sore throat). About 20% of sore throat are caused by Group A Strep (the most of the rest cases by viruses). SYMPTOMS (2-4 days) PHARYNGITIS generally develops 2 to 4 days after exposure to the pathogen. 
BACTERIAL VARIATION. Any change in the genotype of a bacterium or its phenotype is known as variation. Genotypic variation can occur as a result of changes in the genes by way of mutation, loss or acquisition of new genetic elements. These variations are heritable. Phenotypic variations are seen temporarily when bacteria are grown under certain environmental conditions. These variations are not heritable