Definition of MASALA. : a varying blend of spices used in Indian cooking. 
A massala or masala in English is basically a curry sauce. For example, a chicken tikka massala is chicken in a tikka sauce. In Indian however, Masala means gravy. To Indi … ans the masala is not a sauce, but a spicy gravy. A masala is a blend of spices, sometimes herbs, sometimes stock, sometimes water and anything else needed such as chillies
1 The movies are often referred to as masala, since there's a little bit of everything here-romance, action, comedy, and music. 2  After all, he had grown up watching all kinds of films from Indian masala fare to the local Malaysian and Hong Kong Chinese films as well as Hollywood cinema. 1 Add the corn flour or maida, kasooti methi, masala powder, chilli powder and salt. 2  However, the bright side was that all types of Indian food such as rice, masala, spices and pickles were available in the two countries, at Indian grocery shops.
1 Rogan josh: In the case of this Kashmiri speciality, for example, coriander, ginger and chilis are each ground individually, and a garam masala of cloves, cardamom, fennel, red or black chilies, cumin, turmeric and nutmeg is prepared separately. The word garam refers to heat in the Ayurvedic sense of the word, meaning to heat the body as these spices, in the Ayurvedic system of medicine, elevate body temperature.
A massala or masala in English is basically a curry sauce. For example, a chicken tikka massala is chicken in a tikka sauce. In Indian however, Masala means gravy. To Indi … ans the masala is not a sauce, but a spicy gravy. A masala is a blend of spices, sometimes herbs, sometimes stock, sometimes water and anything else needed such as chillies. What is written above is not exactly true, although not exactly false, the actual meaning of masala is spice.
masala. A word of Indian origin, meaning mixture of spices. For example, the term garam masala -- literally a hot mixture of spices -- is a combination of ground roasted cumin seeds, coriander seeds, cardamom, cloves, and other spices. The term masala is used in a slang fashion to connote an interesting mixture of things. For example, that was a masala film with elements of a Bond movie, a comedy, and a date movie.
1 In the tomato juice, mix the gram flour, turmeric, chilli-powder, masala, coriander and cumin seed powder. 2  Add the corn flour or maida, kasooti methi, masala powder, chilli powder and salt. 1 Add the corn flour or maida, kasooti methi, masala powder, chilli powder and salt. 2  However, the bright side was that all types of Indian food such as rice, masala, spices and pickles were available in the two countries, at Indian grocery shops.
1 A mixture of ground spices used in Indian cookery. Example sentences. 1  In the tomato juice, mix the gram flour, turmeric, chilli-powder, masala, coriander and cumin seed powder. 2  Add the corn flour or maida, kasooti methi, masala powder, chilli powder and salt. 1 Add the corn flour or maida, kasooti methi, masala powder, chilli powder and salt. 2  However, the bright side was that all types of Indian food such as rice, masala, spices and pickles were available in the two countries, at Indian grocery shops.
For the 2013 film, see Garam Masala (2013 film) . A garam masala. Garam masala (from Hindi: गरम मसाला , garam (hot) and masala (a mixture of spices)) is a blend of ground spices common in North Indian and other South Asian cuisines. It is used alone or with other seasonings. The word garam refers to heat in the Ayurvedic sense of the word, meaning to heat the body as these spices, in the Ayurvedic system of medicine, elevate body temperature.