Confused: Zoe Zoë henry In'nando. S i tried to condense: It Cheeky’nando s is a way of, life a cultural, identity a coming together of fun and. Frivolity Cheeky’nando s is a, lifestyle where friendship (reigns) chicken, Supreme i. Explained everyone comes To'nando. s “I hear that this 'Cheeky Nando's' thing is for real,” she had told me in an email. “I’m only around 80 per cent sure what that means.”. We went after a couple of obligatory drinks (which we smashed, obvs). It helped too that she was a touch hungover.
Don't forget to share with your friends on Twitter and Facebook. This Is What A “Cheeky Nandos” Means In Australia. 1. Earlier this month, Americans on Tumblr were trying to figure out what, exactly, was meant by the term “cheeky Nandos”. 2. Australians, however, were largely excluded from this debate. Perhaps because we *have* Nandos in Oz, or ... Earlier this month, Americans on Tumblr were trying to figure out what, exactly, was meant by the term “cheeky Nandos”. http://imgoingtocrackeryouanewone.tumblr.com/post/118695681195/why-is-everyone-so-confused-bout-goin-fir-a.
Nando's is an international casual dining restaurant chain originating from South Africa, with a Mozambican / Portuguese theme. Founded in 1987, Nando's operates about 1,000 outlets in 30 countries. Nando's specializes in flame-grilled peri peri chicken. The chicken is served in quarters, halves, wholes, and butterfly breasts (UK, Ireland and South Africa only). Nando's also serves burgers, pitas, salads, wings and wraps.
The new trend of having a 'cheeky nandos' seems to have confused a lot of people outside the UK. So much so that it's become a widespread pandemic. Well I'm here to save you all from this despair, and bring to you closure on this topic. PATREON-. ► https://www.patreon.com/CreepsMcPasta. MAIN CHANNEL-. 
We all know what a cheeky nandos is here in the UK. No one had to be told, it was never explained. 
People on Tumblr are trying to define what a 'cheeky Nando's' is and it's hilarious. Mate, I'm the one and only bantarantula #cheekynandos pic.twitter.com/xmKWnPe21w— Tiny Tony (@tinytonyt) May 12, 2015 I feel as if #cheekynandos has become quite a serious part of British culture— Haynes (@bethany_aliceh) May 12, 2015. We’ve all had a cheeky Nando’s (if you haven’t, what the heck were you doing on your Saturday afternoons to recover from a banter-filled night out on the town?), but sadly people from other cultures around the world have been deprived from the experience and thus have no idea what’s going on.
I tried to condense it: Cheeky Nando’s is a way of life, a cultural identity, a coming together of fun and frivolity. Cheeky Nando’s is a lifestyle, where friendship reigns (chicken) supreme, I explained. Everyone comes to Nando's. “I hear that this 'Cheeky Nando's' thing is for real,” she had told me in an email. “I’m only around 80 per cent sure what that means.”. We went after a couple of obligatory drinks (which we smashed, obvs). It helped too that she was a touch hungover.
Nando's specializes in chicken dishes with lemon and herb, mango and lime, medium, hot, extra hot or extra extra hot peri-peri marinades (properly known as Galinha a à). Africana in some, Countries'nando s has other flavour options such As. mediterranean Nando's specializes in flame-grilled peri peri chicken. The chicken is served in quarters, halves, wholes, and butterfly breasts (UK, Ireland and South Africa only). Nando's also serves burgers, pitas, salads, wings and wraps.
So when people say cheeky nandos-its like a naughty treat almost; however the reason that its funny is because the sterotype of someone who would say cheeky nandos is an adolecant male who thinks hes just the bees knees. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: the word 'cheeky' in england is a comman word for a bit naughty but in the sense of eating bad foood, so people in england often say ill have a cheeky biscuit etc implying that its not good for them but they will be a bit naughty and have one.