A reference range is usually defined as the set of values 95 percent of the normal population falls within (that is, 95% prediction interval). Reference ranges are usually given as what are the usual (or normal) values found in the population, more specifically the prediction interval that 95% of the population fall into. This may also be called standard range.
A cell reference refers to a cell or a range of cells on a worksheet and can be used in a formula so that Microsoft Office Excel can find the values or data that you want that formula to calculate. In one or several formulas, you can use a cell reference to refer to: Data from one cell on the worksheet. 
The term reference range is preferred over normal range because the reference population can be clearly defined. Rather than implying that the test results are being compared with some vague definition of normal, the reference range means the results are being considered in the most relevant context. In summary Remember, an abnormal or outside the reference range test result is a not always a sign of a problem. A test result outside the reference range may or may not be a reason for concern; you could even be better than expected and still fall outside the expected statistical range.
This is the general reference range. However, there are also optimal health ranges (ranges that appear to have the optimal health impact) and ranges for particular conditions or statuses (such as pregnancy reference ranges for hormone levels). It is a basis for comparison (a frame of reference) for a physician or other health professional to interpret a set of test results for a particular patient. Some important reference ranges in medicine are reference ranges for blood tests and reference ranges for urine tests. The standard definition of a reference range (usually referred to if not otherwise specified) originates in what is most prevalent in a reference group taken from the general population
A cell or cell reference identifies a cell's position on a worksheet. A range or range reference identifies a group of cells and their position on a worksheet. These references tell a Microsoft Excel formula and other Microsoft Excel features where to obtain a value or group of values. What do the Dollar Signs Mean in a Cell Reference or Range Reference. When you place dollar signs around a cell reference or range reference, you are preventing the reference from changing when you copy or paste a cell with a formula in it. Cell references and range references can move relative to your copy and paste, that is what they are designed to do by nature
In health-related fields, a reference range or reference interval is the range of values for a physiologic measurement in healthy persons (for example, the amount of creatinine in the blood, or the partial pressure of oxygen). It is a basis for comparison (a frame of reference) for a physician or other health professional to interpret a set of test results for a particular patient. Some important reference ranges in medicine are reference ranges for blood tests and reference ranges for urine tests. The standard definition of a reference range (usually referred to if not otherwise specified) originates in what is most prevalent in a reference group taken from the general population
Reference ranges for blood tests are studied within the field of clinical chemistry (also known as clinical biochemistry, chemical pathology or pure blood chemistry), the area of pathology that is generally concerned with analysis of bodily fluids. Reference ranges are usually given as what are the usual (or normal) values found in the population, more specifically the prediction interval that 95% of the population fall into. This may also be called standard range.
Go directly to Critical Values. REFERENCE RANGES. Reference Ranges (“normal limits”) are usually determined by taking either the lowest and highest values (range) of results obtained on a normal population, the mean 2 standard deviations (S.D.) of the values obtained on a large population or the central 95% range. 