Essential Information. Generally, dentists must complete a bachelor's degree, pass the Dental Admissions Test (DAT), and complete four years of study to earn a Doctor of Dental Surgery or Doctor of Dental Medicine. Finally, they must obtain licensure from their state board of dentistry to practice in the profession.
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics projected 31 percent employment growth for dental assistants between 2010 and 2020, more than double the 14 percent average for all occupations. Its May 2012 figures showed an average wage of $16.86 per hour for dental assistants, or $35,080 a year.
Dentists may choose to specialize in a particular field of dentistry, such as orthodontics or pediatric dentistry. To become a specialist, dentists must complete 2-4 years of postdoctoral education, and they might be required to complete a 2-year residency program in their field of choice.
1 I am an orthodontist. 2  To be an orthodontist one needs to become a dentist first. 3  To get into dental school you need 2-4 years of college. 4  Most people get into dental school with 
Generally, dentists must complete a bachelor's degree, pass the Dental Admissions Test (DAT), and complete four years of study to earn a Doctor of Dental Surgery or Doctor of Dental Medicine. Finally, they must obtain licensure from their state board of dentistry to practice in the profession.
To become a general dentist, students will need to complete pre-dental coursework at the university level. They must then attend dental school for at least 4 years to earn a professional degree. On average, it takes 8 years of training to qualify for a general dental license with the state. For specialists, it takes even longer. For example, aspiring orthodontists will spend 2 to 3 years in a postgraduate orthodontics program after graduating from dental school.
1 To be an orthodontist one needs to become a dentist first. 2  To get into dental school you need 2-4 years of college. 3  Most people get into dental school with 4 years of college. 4  You need to get good grades in certain required courses.