Average costs of construction in Australia. The BMT Construction Cost Table is a useful guide to the cost of construction for a variety of building types including, houses, townhouses, residential apartments, office blocks, industrial warehouses, supermarkets, shopping centres, hotels and motels. 110% - 120%. The construction cost information above is provided as a general guide to allow you to estimate the potential construction costs for a building type.
You will find material and labor costs by the item (such as a window), by the square foot (e.g, drywall) or by the linear foot (e.g., moldings). Remodelers will find unit costs for things like demolition, shoring, and cleanup. View a sample page from a unit-price estimating guide. 
(140.8 kB). Material Estimate by Count: To build the unit price, count quantities for each wall element—studs, plates, headers, and sheathing. In this example (top), doors and window rough openings are assumed to be 3 feet, and sheathing is assumed to be applied horizontally in staggered courses. This value, combined with a dollar cost, will yield the unit price per square foot. The bottom table converts quantities to linear feet. Combined with a dollar cost, this value will yield the unit price per linear foot of wall.
Building permits are needed for more than just new home construction. The national average cost of a building permit is $853, with most homeowners spending between $366 and $1,340. This data is based on actual project costs according to HomeAdvisor members. Depending on the area, they may be required for additions, renovations and even electrical or plumbing projects
For the building of a condominium complex of two units, the typical costs include: 1  With lux-range materials, a normal foundation with full basement, efficient doors and windows, all appliances, and turnkey finishing would run at an average of $102,000 to $240,000 per unit to complete. 1 This sort of building, however, would not come in at a simple cost of $85 per square foot due simply to the excessive amount of construction required on the interior. 2  A two-story unit of wooden construction with two condominiums would run roughly $484,500 in total costs
Costs for building storage units vary, depending on location and what features you include. For example, if the unit is climate controlled, it will cost more to build and operate than one that is not. Climate controlled units keep temperatures from dropping below 55 degrees or rising to more than 80 degrees. If you're putting together a business plan to start a self-storage business, one category to be researched is Storage Unit Business: Cost to Build. This article will help provide the information and resources you will need.
Unit/townhouse building costs. The cost of building units on a subdivided property will depend on several factors. On an average, build prices for a unit or townhouse in Geelong would be around $10,000 – $18 000 per square. The final price depends on the land, fixtures and finishes chosen. Apart from this, any defect in the drainage or water supply lines would add to the price. Hence choosing wisely