Overview. Muscle atrophy is defined as a decrease in muscle mass. Muscular atrophy, the wasting or loss of muscle tissue, can result either from lack of use (disuse atrophy), from disease (neurogenic atrophy), or from malnutrition. Muscular atrophy caused by lack of use is reversible with appropriate exercise.
Two types of atrophy exist, atrophy caused by inactivity and neurogenic atrophy in which damage is done to the nerves connecting to your muscles and may cause more spontaneous atrophy than atrophy due to inactivity. Neurogenic atrophy is a symptom of diseases including polio and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Practice patience and start slowly. One of the biggest challenges that you may face while attempting to rebuild muscle is overcoming the realization that your body is not physically capable of the feats it used to be prior to atrophy. You will have to gradually work up to your fitness goals again.
How to Rebuild Muscles After Atrophy. Multiple exercises and tools can be used to rebuild muscles. Maybe you're the office worker, warming a desk chair eight hours a day as your muscles wilt from lack of use. Make that nine hours if you work through lunch. In either circumstance, you're fighting the same monster: muscle atrophy. Unless this atrophy is caused by an illness, wibbly-wobbly muscles don't have to be permanent. You can counteract muscle loss with supervised exercise and a proper, balanced diet.
The muscles aren't getting any stronger — but they're not wasting away, either. There are several factors that can lead to muscle atrophy: 1  Age: Regardless of how often we make it to the gym, the natural process of aging can cause muscle loss. 2  Sarcopenia, or muscle loss due to aging, kicks in as early as age 20. 
Muscle atrophy can occur after a lack of use, through the normal aging process or due to disease or injury. In many cases, you reverse muscle atrophy with proper exercise and a quality eating plan. Be patient with your progress. It could take years to rebuild full strength and range of motion. If your atrophy is due to disease or injury, consult with your medical team before beginning a muscle-building program. You may also want to consult a certified personal trainer or physical therapist if you are coming to exercise after a long hiatus or for the first time. Step 1
Regaining muscle after atrophy should be done under the guidance of a physician and physical therapist to prevent any further injury, which may result in even greater atrophy. It is important that you consult with a physician to determine the exact reason for your muscle atrophy. Practice patience and start slowly. One of the biggest challenges that you may face while attempting to rebuild muscle is overcoming the realization that your body is not physically capable of the feats it used to be prior to atrophy. You will have to gradually work up to your fitness goals again.
Photo Credit Purestock/Purestock/Getty Images. Muscle atrophy is the loss of size or mass of muscle tissue and can afflict any muscle in the body. Atrophy of the muscle can occur for a number of reasons, including disuse from an injury such as if your arm is in a cast or you are bedridden. Simple lack of activity and the natural aging process can also cause muscles to atrophy. Step 3. Use light resistance such as small hand weights or resistance tubing to begin rebuilding your lost muscle mass. Resistance needs to be added gradually, adding too much too quickly can result in injury. A leg extension with a resistance band is an example exercise for atrophied quadriceps muscles.