An Express Release Bill of Lading means that no Original Bills of Lading were issued, or requested to be issued, when the shipper’s instructions were sent to the shipping line. Express Release is typically requested when the shipper does not need to hold onto the Original Bill of Lading to secure payment for the cargo. A Telex Release is done in the event that the Original Bill of Lading cannot be mailed to the destination in time for cargo release without the goods incurring storage charges, or it can be done to save on mailing costs after payment is secured from the buyer.
I need a telex release for a Bill of Lading. By Investopedia AAA |. A: A telex release is typically issued by the freight carrier after all original copies of the bill of lading are surrendered. Some carriers require payment of all fees before the telex release is transmitted to the receiving agent. It is not a replacement for a bill of lading. Instead, a telex release is a convenient option for shippers who do not need original documents for their accounting or legal records. A shipping company or forwarding agent can request a telex release in the original bill of lading instructions.
Under a telex release, delivery may be effected by the surrender of all three (3) original Bills. of Lading by the shipper to the carrier at the port of loading. This must be accompanied by the Shipper's explicit written instructions and authorization to the carrier to allow release of the goods to a named Consignee. If the shipper will agree to have a telex release issued all they need to do is inform the carrier or frei … ght forwarder that the bill of lading needs to be a telex release instead of an original bill of lading.
The shipper issues the Bill of Lading (BL) or shipping document (express or telex release) when performing an international import or export shipment. The Bill of lading confirms that the goods sent by the exporter to an importer has been shipped with the designated shipper. Telex Release and Bill of lading. The BLs must be sent from the exporter to the importer either as the ORIGINAL or TELEX RELEASE. This usually depends upon whether or not the provider trusts the client and whether or not the payment has been secured.
The major difference between a Telex Release and an Express Release is as follows: 1  With a Telex Release, a physical Original Bill of Lading was issued, printed, and then surrendered. 2  With an Express Release, no Original Bill of Lading was ever issued or printed. A Telex Release is done in the event that the Original Bill of Lading cannot be mailed to the destination in time for cargo release without the goods incurring storage charges, or it can be done to save on mailing costs after payment is secured from the buyer.
A Telex release is the industry term for the release of cargo at one port when the original bill of lading has been surrendered at another. Although this is still referred to as a Telex release, today the release is almost always made by e-mail. Telex release is a normal part of liner shipping. The shipper, or a forwarder, or an NVOCC may choose (for one reason or another) to surrender the bills of lading to the carrier’s agent in a port other than the discharge port. One forged e-mail confirmed that the original bills of lading had been collected at the load port for four containers of mobile phones, and another forged e-mail confirmed that the original bills of lading for a cargo of fruit and the freight had been collected.
Many of the shippers/exporters that follow the principle of No.1 above use “Express Release” instead of a Telex Release also.. PS: It is called a Telex Release because in the past, such release instruction to the discharge port was sent by Telex (see the machine in the picture).. Nowadays, it is sent by e-mail, but the name telex release stuck.. Image credit: http://www.samhallas.co.uk/museums/henlow/07b_creed_444.jpg. Simply fill your email address below and Voila!, voilà you will get the articles in your.. Inbox join 8236 other.. subscribers
The shipper has to be willing to agree the terms of a telex release. If the shipper will agree to have a telex release issued all they need to do is inform the carrier or frei … ght forwarder that the bill of lading needs to be a telex release instead of an original bill of lading.
Telex Release. A Telex Release is a message that is sent by the agent or shipping line from origin to their agent or office at destination to acknowledge that the shipper has surrendered the Original Bill of Lading that has been issued to them. A Telex Release is done in the event that the Original Bill of Lading cannot be mailed to the destination in time for cargo release without the goods incurring storage charges, or it can be done to save on mailing costs after payment is secured from the buyer.