There are many different viruses that can cause cold symptoms, but about half of the time a cold is caused by a class of viruses called rhinoviruses. The rhinovirus gets into the cells lining your nose and starts reproducing. It arrives from other people -- it is not cold weather that causes a cold, but the fact that cold weather causes people to congregate together indoors, which makes transmission of the virus easier.
The common cold is a viral infectious disease that infects the upper respiratory system. It is also known as acute viral rhinopharyngitis, or acute coryza. Being the most common infectious disease in humans, the cold is mainly caused by coronaviruses or rhinoviruses. Up to 50% of colds are caused by rhinoviruses, other cold causing viruses include: 1  Human parainfluenza virus. 2  Metapneumovirus. 3  Coronavriuses adenovirus. 4  Human respiratory syncytial virus. 5  Enteroviruses.
When someone says, I have a cold, what he or she means is, There is something in my body that is causing me to have the set of symptoms that we call a 'cold.'. The set of symptoms normally includes things like a runny nose, sneezing, coughing, chills and a headache. The rhinovirus gets into the cells lining your nose and starts reproducing. It arrives from other people -- it is not cold weather that causes a cold, but the fact that cold weather causes people to congregate together indoors, which makes transmission of the virus easier.
Common colds, or simply colds, are usually quite harmless and go away again on their own. Although they are different to the flu, having the symptoms of a cold-like a cough, sore throat and runny nose-can be bothersome. A severe cold can make you feel weak and ill too. Most colds are caused by viruses. Antibiotics are not effective against colds because they only fight bacteria. But there are other things you can do about colds and the related symptoms. Colds usually go away after about a week, but some symptoms may last longer.
The common cold is medically referred to as a viral upper respiratory tract infection. Symptoms of the common cold may include cough, sore throat, watery eyes, nasal congestion, runny nose, and sneezing. Because so many different viruses can cause the common cold and because new cold viruses constantly develop, the body never builds up resistance against all of them. For this reason, colds are a frequent and recurring problem.
The common cold (also known as nasopharyngitis, rhinopharyngitis, acute coryza, head cold, or simply a cold) is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract which primarily affects the nose. The typical symptoms of a cold include a cough, a runny nose, nasal congestion and a sore throat, sometimes accompanied by muscle ache, fatigue, headache, and loss of appetite. A sore throat is present in about 40% of the cases and a cough in about 50%, while muscle ache occurs in about half.
Causes of Colds. Most viruses that cause colds are very contagious and are transmitted from person to person. 1  Of the viruses that cause a cold, the most commonly occurring subtype is a group that lives in the nasal passages known as the rhinovirus..
Other Causes of the Common Cold. About 10% to 15% of adult colds are caused by viruses also responsible for other, more severe respiratory illnesses. The causes of 20%-30% of adult colds, presumed to be viral, remain unidentified. The same viruses that produce colds in adults appear to cause colds in children. How and When They Strike. Cold viruses have a lot in common, but each type has its own style, too. Rhinovirus. This bunch is most active in early fall, spring, and summer. They cause 10%-40% of colds. You'll feel plenty miserable when you catch one, but the good news is they rarely make you seriously sick. Coronavirus.
1 The common cold is caused by many different viruses. 2  The common cold is transmitted by infected airborne droplets or by direct contact with infected secretions. 3  Being in cold weather does not cause the common cold. 4  Symptoms of the common cold include. 5  cough, 6  sore throat, 7  sneezing, 8  runny nose. Because so many different viruses can cause the common cold and because new cold viruses constantly develop, the body never builds up resistance against all of them. For this reason, colds are a frequent and recurring problem.
More than 200 different types of viruses are known to cause the common cold, with rhinovirus causing approximately 10%-40% of all adult colds. Other commonly implicated viruses include coronavirus, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, and parainfluenza virus. Because so many different viruses can cause the common cold and because new cold viruses constantly develop, the body never builds up resistance against all of them. For this reason, colds are a frequent and recurring problem.