The nucleus is perhaps the most important structure inside animal and plant cells. It is the main control center for the cell and acts kind of like the cell's brain. Only eukaryotic cells have a nucleus. The most important function of the nucleus is to store the cell's genetic information in the form of DNA. DNA holds the instructions for how the cell should work. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid. The molecules of DNA are organized into special structures called chromosomes.
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival. In fact, the mere presence of a nucleus is considered one of the defining features of a eukaryotic cell. This structure is so important because it is the site at which the cell's DNA is housed and the process of interpreting it begins.
The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA.
The nucleus of a eukaryotic cell contains the DNA, the genetic material of the cell. The DNA contains the information necessary for constructing the cell and directing the multitude of synthesis tasks performed by the cell in the process of life and reproduction. 
The nucleus is particularly important among eukaryotic organelles because it is the location of a cell's DNA. Two other critical organelles are mitochondria and chloroplasts, which play important roles in energy conversion and are thought to have their evolutionary origins as simple single-celled organisms. In fact, the mere presence of a nucleus is considered one of the defining features of a eukaryotic cell. This structure is so important because it is the site at which the cell's DNA is housed and the process of interpreting it begins.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). The nucleus is the most important organelle in the cell. It contains the genetic material, the DNA, which is responsible for controlling and directing all the activities of the cell. All the RNAs needed for the cell are synthesised in the nucleus. 
Abstract. The cell nucleus is a double membrane‐bound organelle that contains the genetic information of the cell packaged in the form of chromatin. The nucleus is a characteristic feature of most eukaryotic cells. The nucleus is considered to be one of the most important structures of eukaryotic cells as it serves the function of information storage, retrieval and duplication of genetic information. 
Of all eukaryotic organelles, the nucleus is perhaps the most critical. In fact, the mere presence of a nucleus is considered one of the defining features of a eukaryotic cell. This structure is so important because it is the site at which the cell's DNA is housed and the process of interpreting it begins.
Yes, it is possible for a Eukaryotic cell to have no nucleus. An example of a cell without a nucleus is the mammalian red blood cell. However, Eukaryotic cells without a nuc … leus, like red blood cells, are unable to replicate. This is why red blood cells need to be continuously produced in the bone marrow. it is important because the nucleus is the control center of any cell. if they have a nucleus.