A tumor can be benign or malignant. A benign tumor is not cancerous. A malignant tumor is cancerous. Malignant tumors are more harmful. When they grow they can harm tissues and organs. Parts of malignant tumors can also break off and spread to other parts of the body. This is how cancer spreads. Note: different types of cancer have different risk factors. Cells are the building blocks of your body. Normally cells grow, divide and die. Cancer begins when a normal cell mutates, or changes, and is not able to repair itself. The damaged cell then keeps multiplying and creates a tumor.
Evidence of cancer in ancient Egyptian texts is also 'tenuous' with cancer-like problems more likely to have been caused by leprosy or even varicose veins. The ancient Greeks were probably the first to define cancer as a specific disease and to distinguish between benign and malignant tumours. 
Cell changes and cancer. All cancers begin in cells. Our bodies are made up of more than a hundred million million (100,000,000,000,000) cells. Cancer starts with changes in one cell or a small group of cells. Usually we have just the right number of each type of cell. Some types of cancer, called leukaemia, start from blood cells. They don't form solid tumours. Instead, the cancer cells build up in the blood and sometimes the bone marrow. For a cancer to start, certain changes take place within the genes of a cell or a group of cells.
This is as simple as it can be described. Cancer starts because cells in a part of your body do not grow and divide the way that they are supposed to.     Can … cer begins when when mutations disrupt the normal cell cycle, causing cells to divide in an uncontrrollable way. + 5 others found this useful.
Cancer is the uncontrolled division of cells in your body. Normal cells have a complex set of control systems that keep them from dividing when they're not supposed to. Cancer starts because cells in a part of your body do not grow and divide the way that they are supposed to.     Can … cer begins when when mutations disrupt the normal cell cycle, causing cells to divide in an uncontrrollable way. + 5 others found this useful.
Some of the earliest evidence of cancer is found among fossilized bone tumors, human mummies in ancient Egypt, and ancient manuscripts. Growths suggestive of the bone cancer called osteosarcoma have been seen in mummies. Bony skull destruction as seen in cancer of the head and neck has been found, too. The origin of the word cancer is credited to the Greek physician Hippocrates (460-370 BC), who is considered the “Father of Medicine.” Hippocrates used the terms carcinos and carcinoma to describe non-ulcer forming and ulcer-forming tumors.
Origin of the word cancer. The origin of the word cancer is credited to the Greek physician Hippocrates (460-370 BC), who is considered the “Father of Medicine.” Hippocrates used the terms carcinos and carcinoma to describe non-ulcer forming and ulcer-forming tumors.
Cancer, also known as a malignant tumor or malignant neoplasm, is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. Not all tumors are cancerous; benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body. The chance of survival depends on the type of cancer and extent of disease at the start of treatment. In children under 15 at diagnosis the five year survival rate in the developed world is on average 80%. For cancer in the United States the average five year survival rate is 66%.