Start with the basics Amplitude Wavelength Amplitude is the height of the wave. Frequency is how many waves pass by in a single second Wavelength is the distance between two crests or troughs. Frequency Frequency and Amplitude If you were at the beach, frequency is how often a wave hits you and amplitude is the height of the wave. Wavelength and Amplitude Let's use the beach analogy again
Frequency is generally measured in Hertz, which are units of cycles per second. Color is the frequency of visible light, and it ranges from 430 trillion Hertz (which is red) to 750 trillion Hertz (which is violet). Waves can also go beyond and below those frequencies, but they're not visible to the human eye. Related to the energy and frequency is the wavelength, or the distance between corresponding points on subsequent waves. You can measure wavelength from peak to peak or from trough to trough.
The relation between wavelength and frequency. c = 3 x 108 m/s. We denote wavelength by. Frequency is how many complete waves go by per second. We denote frequency by Frequency is measured in Hertz = Hz = 1/seconds. If a wave with a wavelength of 2 meters is going by at a speed of 6 meters/second, then 3 complete waves go by in 1 second. That is, the frequency is 6/2 = 3 waves/second, or 3 Hz. (See units).Thus. For example, radio station KUGN broadcasts at a frequency of 590 KHz. 
Electromagnetic waves always travel at the same speed (299,792 km per second). This is one of their defining characteristics. In the electromagnetic spectrum there are many different types of waves with varying frequencies and wavelengths. They are all related by one important equation: Any electromagnetic wave's frequency multiplied by its wavelength equals the speed of light. 
In physics, the wavelength of a sinusoidal wave is the spatial period of the wave—the distance over which the wave's shape repeats, and the inverse of the spatial frequency. 
The wavelength and frequency of light are closely related. The higher the frequency, the shorter the wavelength. Because all light waves move through a vacuum at the same speed, the number of wave crests passing by a given point in one second depends on the wavelength. That number, also known as the frequency, will be larger for a short-wavelength wave than for a long-wavelength wave. The equation that relates wavelength and frequency for electromagnetic waves is: λν=c where λ is the wavelength, ν is the frequency and c is the speed of light.
Electromagnetic waves can be described by their wavelengths, energy, and frequency. All three of these things describe a different property of light, yet they are related to each other mathematically. This means that it is correct to talk about the energy of an X-ray or the wavelength of a microwave or the frequency of a radio wave. In fact, X-rays and gamma-rays are usually described in terms of energy, optical and infrared light in terms of wavelength, and radio in terms of
Wavelength = constant/frequency, frequency = constant/wavelength. If constant = 1 and wavelength is 10, then frequency = 0.1. Wavelength and frequency are inversely related--the shorter the wavelength, the higher the frequency. Blue light, for example, has a higher frequency than red light. For electromagnetic radiation, including light, wavelength and frequency are related to each other by the speed of light: c=wavelength*frequency where c=3.00 x 10^8 m/s2 (approximately).
Wavelength is usually measured in meters (m). Frequency is the number of cycles of a wave to pass some point in a second. The units of frequency are thus cycles per second, or Hertz (Hz). This means that it is correct to talk about the energy of an X-ray or the wavelength of a microwave or the frequency of a radio wave. In fact, X-rays and gamma-rays are usually described in terms of energy, optical and infrared light in terms of wavelength, and radio in terms of frequency.