In a conventional oven, set the temperature to 325 degrees Fahrenheit. Then put the turkey or turkey breast on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. The USDA recommends not stuffing a turkey before its cooked. It is recommended to cook the stuffing outside the turkey in a casserole. 
You may choose to cook the turkey to higher temperatures. Cooking time will vary. For example, a 20 pound turkey will take 4 1/4 to 5 hours to cook, check the temperature on the thermometer after 4 1/4 hours. 4. Meanwhile, mix the stuffing or dressing. Place in a casserole and pop it into the oven during the last hour or so of roasting time. 
1 Set your oven temperature no lower than 325 °F. 2  Place your turkey or turkey breast on a rack in a shallow roasting pan. 3  For optimum safety, stuffing a turkey is not recommended. 4  For more even cooking, it is recommended you cook your stuffing outside the bird in a casserole. 
Lower the oven to 350°F and roast the turkey for 1 hour: Place the turkey in the oven and immediately lower the heat to 350°F. Roast for 1 hour, then begin checking the temperature. Check the turkey's temperature: The turkey is done when it reaches 165°F in the thickest part of the breast meat. 
1 Place your turkey in the oven. 2  When the turkey is about ⅔ done, loosely cover breast and top of drumsticks with a piece of foil to prevent overcooking. 3  Your turkey is done when the temperature with a meat thermometer is 180° F in thigh and 165° F in breast or stuffing. 1 After about 3 hours, insert an oven-safe thermometer deep into the thigh without touching the bone. 2  Begin checking the turkey for doneness about 30 minutes before the recommended cook time. 3  Your turkey is done when the temperature with a meat thermometer is 180° F in thigh and 165° F in breast or stuffing.
Baste with the juices then increase the oven temperature to gas mark 6, 400°F (200°C). Cook the uncovered turkey for a further 40 minutes – once the bacon on top of the turkey has browned you can push it down into the tin to allow the breast to get a final browning. 6. 
Tent the bird with foil. Roast the turkey for 2 hours. Remove the foil and baste with the remaining butter. Increase oven temperature to 425 degrees F and continue to roast until an instant read thermometer registers 165 degrees F in the thigh of the bird, about 45 minutes more. Remove turkey form the oven and set aside to rest for 15 minutes before carving. Carve and serve with dressing. Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Put the stuffing cubes in a large bowl and set aside. Butter a 3-quart casserole dish. Melt 2 tablespoons of butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat
From prepping and basting to roasting and carving, get all the tips you need to cook your bird. 1  Heat oven to 350 degrees F. 2  Roast turkey uncovered for 20 minutes per pound. 3  Cook to an internal temperature of 165 degrees measured at the thigh. 4  Let rest 20 minutes before carving. 
1. Do not roast the turkey in a oven temperature lower than 325° F. Poultry should be roasted at 325° F. or higher to avoid potential food safety problems. 2. Do not roast the turkey in a brown paper grocery bag. Present day grocery bags may be made of recycled materials and are not considered safe for food preparation. 3