Answer   Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is a hormone synthesised and secreted by gonadotropes in the anterior pituitary gland. FSH and LH act synergistically in … reproduction:   * In women, in the ovary FSH stimulates the growth of immature Graafian follicles to maturation. Their secretion is regulated by the hypothalamus GRH (gonadotropin releasing hormone), where GRH stimulates the release of FSH and LH and FSH and LH feedback and decreases levels of GRH release. Estrogens and androgens also feedback and inhibit the gonadotrophs in the pituitary and feedback on the hypothalamus.
A luteinizing hormone test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in a sample of blood or urine. LH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, LH helps regulate the menstrual cycle and egg production (ovulation). 2  The level of LH in a woman's body varies with the phase of the menstrual cycle. 3  It increases rapidly just before ovulation occurs, about midway through the cycle (day 14 of a 28-day cycle). LH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, LH helps regulate the menstrual cycle and egg production (ovulation). 2  In men, LH stimulates the production of testosterone, which plays a role in sperm production.
Gonadotropic hormones FSH (Follicle stimulating hormone) and LH (Luteinizing hormone) are produced and secreted by the gonadotrophs in anterior pituitary. These are the trophic hormones that act on the ovaries and testes. Required for ovulation, spermatogenesis, biosynthesis of estrogens and androgens. Their secretion is regulated by the hypothalamus GRH (gonadotropin releasing hormone), where GRH stimulates the release of FSH and LH and FSH and LH feedback and decreases levels of GRH release. Estrogens and androgens also feedback and inhibit the gonadotrophs in the pituitary and feedback on the hypothalamus.
Menotropins are a mixture of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) that are produced in the body by the pituitary gland. Menotropins injection is used in women with healthy ovaries who are enrolled in a fertility program called assisted reproductive technology (ART). 
Drugs that inhibit LH and FSH secretion. production of steroid hormones is regulated by the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) is released from the hypothalamus, and stimulates cells in the anterior pituitary to release lutenizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH).
The principle regulator of LH and FSH secretion is gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH, also known as LH-releasing hormone). GnRH is a ten amino acid peptide that is synthesized and secreted from hypothalamic neurons and binds to receptors on gonadotrophs. Gonadotropins: Luteinizing and Follicle Stimulating Hormones. Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) are called gonadotropins because stimulate the gonads-in males, the testes, and in females, the ovaries. They are not necessary for life, but are essential for reproduction.
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is a glycoprotein hormone found in humans and other animals. It is synthesized and secreted by gonadotropes of the anterior pituitary gland, and regulates the development, growth, pubertal maturation, and reproductive processes of the body. FSH and luteinizing hormone (LH) act synergistically in reproduction.
A follicle-stimulating hormone test measures the amount of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in a blood sample. FSH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, FSH helps control the menstrual cycle and the production of eggs by the ovaries. 2  The amount of FSH varies throughout a woman's menstrual cycle and is highest just before she releases an egg (ovulates). 3  In men, FSH helps control the production of sperm. FSH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, FSH helps control the menstrual cycle and the production of eggs by the ovaries. 2