Anesthesiologist vs Nurse Anesthetist. Doctors and nurses usually have distinct responsibilities. Doctors treat the patient by giving orders and directions. Nurses treat the patient by carrying out the orders of the doctors. Some difficult procedures should not be done by nurses because there will be a breach in responsibilities and tasks. There is a major difference between anesthesiologists and nurse anesthetists. To make things at ease, the former is a doctor who specializes in anesthesiology while the latter is a nurse who studied and trained for a few more years before becoming an anesthetist. On the other side of nursing, for a nurse to become a nurse anesthetist, he or she completes a Bachelor’s degree. Then the individual must pass the nursing exam or NCLEX in the US. After passing the exam, a hospital experience is required for a minimum of one year.
Anesthesiologist Vs CRNA. There’s a small confusion between the practice of an anesthesiologist and a CRNA because they both deal with the usage of anesthetics. Nevertheless, they have distinct roles which are equally important. That’s why they collaborate with each other in caring for their patients. 
A nurse anesthetist or CRNA for short (certified registered nurse anesthetist) is a registered nurse that worked in a critical care area for at least 1 year (usually much more) before returning to school for 2+ years for specialty training in anesthesia. CRNAs are masters prepared. (except for older ones that trained prior to a masters degree requirement.) Both anesthesiologist and CRNAs are very educated and capable of delivering quality anesthesia care. The main difference in my opinion is that CRNAs bring compassion and a human touch into the anesthesia setting.
Anesthesiologists are doctors who studied medicine and took a residency. A nurse anesthetist finished nursing and received a Masters degree. Anesthesiologists study longer for about 12 years while a CRNA studies for about 6-7 years in total. Both do not differ in function and tasks. On the other side of nursing, for a nurse to become a nurse anesthetist, he or she completes a Bachelor’s degree. Then the individual must pass the nursing exam or NCLEX in the US. After passing the exam, a hospital experience is required for a minimum of one year.
The Anesthesiologist Assistant (AA) and Nurse Anesthetist (NA) have the same responsibilities. Both are integral members of the Anesthesia Care Team and function as anesthetists led by a qualified anesthesiologist. 
A nurse anesthetist is a nurse who specializes in the administration of anesthesia. In the United States, a certified registered nurse anesthetist (CRNA) is an advanced practice registered nurse (APRN) who has acquired graduate-level education and board certification in anesthesia. According to the American Association of Nurse Anesthetists, nurse anesthetists are the oldest nurse specialty group in the United States. Additionally, in testament to the profession’s roots, today’s nurse anesthetists remain the primary anesthesia providers to U.S. service men and women at home and abroad.
So what is the difference between an NP and nurse anesthetist? While it’s true they both need to have a minimum of a master’s degree to work in their field and that they continue to provide care to patients, the kind of care that they will be administering will be different. 
A American Society of Anesthesiologists answered. An anesthesiologist is a physician who specializes in anesthesia care, and a nurse anesthetist is a nurse with extra training in administering anesthetics. Both work together on anesthesia care teams, led by anesthesiologists who make critical, medical decisions for patient care. If there is a problem, an anesthesiologist will be in the room within seconds. If your surgery is being performed in an office operating room and your nurse anesthetist has a problem, she will look to the plastic surgeon for assistance.
Education. Anesthetists are registered nurses who typically complete a two-or four-year degree in nursing. To administer anesthesia, they have to take an additional two years of training, according to Orlando plastic surgeon Armando Soto. Anesthesiologists are licensed medical doctors who complete medical school just as other doctors do. In an August 2010 article Nurse anesthetists vs. anesthesiologists: a safety debate for Boston.com, Elizabeth Cooney noted recent studies showed the two professions had similar records of safe administration of anesthesia.