The scores of a sample or population that, when graphed, fall on or close to a normal curve. A normal distribution is often ideal in research because the data can then be said to have all of the characteristics of a normal curve. A research method where the subject(s) is(are) observed without interruption under normal or natural circumstances. A standard score that sets the mean to fifty and standard deviation to 21.06, allowing the 99th percentile to have a score of 99 and the first percentile a score of 1.
A normal distribution is a bell-shaped frequency distribution curve. Most of the data values in a normal distribution tend to cluster around the mean. The further a data point is from the mean, the less likely it is to occur. Normal distributions are symmetric, unimodal, and asymptotic, and the mean, median, and mode are all equal. A normal distribution is perfectly symmetrical around its center. That is, the right side of the center is a mirror image of the left side.
A normal distribution is symmetrical, meaning the distribution and frequency of scores on the left side matches the distribution and frequency of scores on the right side. Many distributions fall on a normal curve, especially when large samples of data are considered. As an example, lets look at the normal curve associated with IQ Scores (See Figure 8.2). The mean, median, and mode of a Wechsler’s IQ Score is 100, which means that 50% of IQs fall at 100 or below and 50% fall at 100 or above.
The standard normal distribution is the normal distribution with a mean of zero and a standard deviation of one (the green curves in the plots to the right). It is often called the bell curve because the graph of its probability density resembles a bell. Some notable qualities of the normal distribution: 1  The density function is symmetric about its mean value. 2  The mean is also its mode and median. 3  68.268949% of the area under the curve is within one standard deviation of the mean.
In probability theory, the normal (or Gaussian) distribution is a very common continuous probability distribution. Normal distributions are important in statistics and are often used in the natural and social sciences to represent real-valued random variables whose distributions are not known. The normal distribution is remarkably useful because of the central limit theorem. For the normal distribution, the values less than one standard deviation away from the mean account for 68.27% of the set; while two standard deviations from the mean account for 95.45%; and three standard deviations account for 99.73%.
The normal distribution is a subclass of the elliptical distributions. The normal distribution is symmetric about its mean, and is non-zero over the entire real line. For the normal distribution, the values less than one standard deviation away from the mean account for 68.27% of the set; while two standard deviations from the mean account for 95.45%; and three standard deviations account for 99.73%.
The mean, median, and mode of a normal distribution are identical and fall exactly in the center of the curve. This means that any score below the mean falls in the lower 50% of the distribution of scores and any score above the mean falls in the upper 50%. Also, the shape of the curve allows for a simple breakdown of sections. As an example, lets look at the normal curve associated with IQ Scores (See Figure 8.2). The mean, median, and mode of a Wechsler’s IQ Score is 100, which means that 50% of IQs fall at 100 or below and 50% fall at 100 or above.
Answer: A normal distribution (or a bell curve) is a statistical grouping of scores wherein the majority of people have scores in the middle and there is a smooth curve toward fewer scores at the extreme ends. It is often called a bell curve because the shape of the graph resembles a bell. 
If and, the distribution is called the standard normal distribution or the unit normal distribution denoted by and a random variable with that distribution is a standard normal deviate. For the normal distribution, the values less than one standard deviation away from the mean account for 68.27% of the set; while two standard deviations from the mean account for 95.45%; and three standard deviations account for 99.73%.
The probability density function of the normal distribution with mean and variance (equivalently, standard deviation) is an example of a Gaussian function, (See also exponential function and pi. ). If a random variable has this distribution, we write ~ . If and, the distribution is called the standard normal distribution and the probability density function reduces to. The image to the right gives the graph of the probability density function of the normal distribution various parameter values. Some notable qualities of the normal distribution: 1  The density function is symmetric about its mean value. 2  The mean is also its mode and median. 3  68.268949% of the area under the curve is within one standard deviation of the mean.