http://www.computergaga.com/blog/inse... Insert a tick symbol in Microsoft Word. The tick symbol can be difficult to find. This video demonstrates where it can be found and used. VISIT COMPUTERGAGA FOR LOTS MORE TIPS. http://www.computergaga.com. CONNECT WITH US! Google+ ► https://plus.google.com/+Computergaga. Facebook ► http://www.facebook.com/computergaga
Best Answer: In Word, select Insert, Symbol from the menu bar. The character map will open. Change the Font: drop down box to Wingdings and then scroll down to the bottom of the grid. The tick is fourth from the right on the bottom row. If you select the tick and then click on the Shortcut Key... 
The right Alt key also works on many systems. The tick symbol is not √ which is a square root symbol. To find what fonts you have which contain ✓, paste ✓ into the Query box at http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/search.htm (or just type “check mark”) and mouse-press search. If more than one answer comes up, check the one which makes the most sense. Use Unicode symbols whenever possible and only use a symbol from Wingdings or another old-style symbol font when you have no other choice and be aware that if you do any conversion of your document you may lose the character. The tick mark appears twice in Unicode as ✓ (http://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/...
The New York Stock Exchange TICK is a market internal indicator useful for short term trading and is a very interesting market sentiment tool. I'll show you several ways to use $TICK to trade stocks, ETF's or stock index futures. If you want to try out this indicator on your charting software use the symbol $TICK. That's the market statistic symbol most often used. If your software allows it, plot $TICK below the ETF-SPY (S&P 500) or the stock index future ES. Obviously, make sure the time frame used is the same.
Tick symbols as well as other common symbols are widely used in any PowerPoint presentation. You can use tick symbols to describe a Yes situation but also in bullet points. If you need to insert a tick symbol in a PowerPoint presentation there are different ways to achieve that. The easiest way to insert a tick symbol is using the feature. This feature allows you to insert any symbol from the Wingdings fonts
You can use the check marks and tick symbols for example to describe a task list in a slide and then mark those tasks that were completed in a project plan, or you can also use the tick symbols to describe the pros and cons of a given business situation. You can use tick symbols to describe a Yes situation but also in bullet points. If you need to insert a tick symbol in a PowerPoint presentation there are different ways to achieve that. The easiest way to insert a tick symbol is using the feature.
What tick signs mean. A tick (also known as a check mark or check) is a mark used to indicate the concept yes, for example yes; this has been verified, yes; that is the correct answer, yes; this has been completed, or yes; this [item or option] applies to me. Character Palette allows you to view and use all characters and symbols, including tick signs, available in all fonts (some examples of fonts are Arial, Times New Roman, Webdings) installed on your computer. Apple Mac OS X Character Viewer.
Tick symbols. Check mark is a pretty popular text symbol used to indicate the concept yes from the times when ASCII encoding was developed. And you can type it right from your keyboard. Character Palette allows you to view and use all characters and symbols, including tick signs, available in all fonts (some examples of fonts are Arial, Times New Roman, Webdings) installed on your computer. Apple Mac OS X Character Viewer.
On the Insert menu, click Symbol, and then click the Symbols tab. In the Font box, click Wingdings, and then scroll to the bottom of the list. Select the symbol that you want, and then click AutoCorrect. The selected symbol will automatically appear in the With box. You can also use the character code of the symbol as a keyboard shortcut. For example, to insert the check mark symbol, change the font to Wingdings, and then press and hold ALT while typing 0252 on the numeric keypad.
(March 2015). A check mark, checkmark or tick is a mark (✓ , ✔ , ☑ , √ , etc.) used to indicate the concept yes (e.g. yes; this has been verified, yes; that is the correct answer, yes; this has been completed, or yes; this [item or option] applies to me). As a verb, to check (off) or tick (off), means to add such a mark. Printed forms, printed documents, and computer software (see Checkbox), commonly include squares in which to place check marks.