Full Definition of SNAG. 1. a: a tree or branch embedded in a lake or stream bed and constituting a hazard to navigation b: a standing dead tree. 2. : a rough sharp or jagged projecting part: protuberance: as a: a projecting tooth; also: a stump of a tooth b: one of the secondary branches of an antler. 
n.) of Snag. Found on http://thinkexist.com/dictionary/meaning/snagging/. Snagging, also known as snag fishing, snatch fishing, or foul hooking, is a method of fishing that entails catching a fish using hooks without the fish having to take the bait with their mouth.
Snagging, like other methods of fishing, is controlled by the wildlife regulating agency of each state. A list of the legality for each state follows. After first casting a hook into the water, a snagger will wait until a fish sighted, at which time they will reel in the hook until it is positioned above the fish. Once the fish is in line with the hook, the snagger then yanks on the line to snag the fish before attempting to reel it in. When fishing in a clear river, most snaggers will be able to observe their target's shadow or wake in the water to determine where their hooks need to be and when
snag. 1. a tree or part of a tree held fast in the bottom of a river, lake, etc., and forming an impediment or danger to navigation. 2. a short, projecting stump, as of a branch broken off. 3. any sharp or rough projection. 1. a difficulty or disadvantage: the snag is that I have nothing suitable to wear. 2. a sharp protuberance, such as a tree stump. 3. (Textiles) a small loop or hole in a fabric caused by a sharp object. 4. (Mechanical Engineering) engineering a projection that brings to a stop a sliding or rotating component. 5
Snagging. Snagging, also known as snag fishing, snatch fishing, or foul hooking, is a method of fishing that entails catching a fish using hooks without the fish having to take the bait with their mouth.
1. To tear, break, hinder, or destroy by or as if by a snag: snagged a stocking on a splinter. 2. Informal To catch or obtain quickly or unexpectedly: snagged a ground ball; snagged a bargain. 3. To free of snags: snagged the river. 4. To catch (a fish), especially by hooking in a place other than its mouth. 1. a difficulty or disadvantage: the snag is that I have nothing suitable to wear. 2. a sharp protuberance, such as a tree stump. 3. (Textiles) a small loop or hole in a fabric caused by a sharp object. 4. (Mechanical Engineering) engineering a projection that brings to a stop a sliding or rotating component. 5
For other uses, see Snag (disambiguation) . Snagging, also known as snag fishing, snatching, snatch fishing, or foul hooking, is a method of fishing that entails catching a fish using hooks without the fish having to take the bait with their mouth. After first casting a hook into the water, a snagger will wait until a fish sighted, at which time they will reel in the hook until it is positioned above the fish. Once the fish is in line with the hook, the snagger then yanks on the line to snag the fish before attempting to reel it in. When fishing in a clear river, most snaggers will be able to observe their target's shadow or wake in the water to determine where their hooks need to be and when
Snagging Definition. Snagging is a slang expression used within the building industry in the UK and Ireland. It is used to describe the process of defect identification and resolution. For new build homes snagging is carried out by the homeowner or a snagging inspector when notice is served usually two weeks before completion or at any tim during the first two years of the warranty period.