So let’s take a look at the 4 lobes of the cerebrum. We have the frontal lobe, the parietal lobe, the occipital lobe, and the temporal lobe. Let’s look at what they are involved in. The frontal lobe is involved in processes such as reasoning, planning, speech, movement, emotions, and problem solving.
The cerebrum in mammals is also called the telencephalon and comprises the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, the olfactory bulb and some other brain structures. The biggest part of the cerebrum consists of the two hemispheres (each of them having/being divided into 4 lobes).
The surface of the cerebrum -- the cerebral cortex -- is composed of six thin layers of neurons, which sit on top of a large collection of white matter pathways. The cortex is heavily convoluted, so that if you were to spread it out, it would actually take up about 2 1/2 square feet (2500 sq cm).
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe.
Directionally, the cerebrum and the cortex that covers it is the uppermost part of the brain. It is the anterior portion of the forebrain and is superior to other brain structures such as the pons, cerebellum and medulla oblongata.
Learn all about it! The cerebrum in mammals is also called the telencephalon and comprises the cerebral cortex, the hippocampus, the olfactory bulb and some other brain structures. The biggest part of the cerebrum consists of the two hemispheres (each of them having/being divided into 4 lobes).
Dr. C. George Boeree. The cerebrum -- which is just Latin for brain -- is the newest (evolutionarily) and largest part of the brain as a whole. It is here that things like perception, imagination, thought, judgment, and decision occur.
The cerebrum is the most superior and anterior of the brain’s major regions. It is the seat of reason, planning, memory, and sensory integration. All conscious thought originates in the cerebrum and can influence the subconscious functions of the lower regions of the brain.