Besides as Sandra said the natural age of weaning is older than 2 and the WHO advises breastfeeding for a minimum of 2 years. It is not ridiculous that your son wants milk at 22 months. I fed my oldest child until 2.5 and am still feeding my 18 month old and plan to keep going as long as I can.
The National Board of Pediatrics recommends to breastfeed your child to age 2 for proper brain development. I don't know how true that really is, but I will tell you I have breastfed all 4 of my boys. I nursed my 6 and 3 year old till they were 2 and my 20 month old is still nursing.
You cannot force a child to breastfeed so as long as he is feeding, he wants to feed. PLEASE, phone LA LECHE LEAGUE today on 0845 120 2918. They are BRILLIANT and will completely put your mind at rest I PROMISE. Breastfeeding a toddler has MANY health benefits and many emotional ones too.
A: Breast milk is the best choice for infants with its perfect balance of nutrients. It is most easily digested, best tolerated, and is all most babies need to grow. Breast feeding has many benefits for both you and the baby. Babies may be protected from gastrointestinal and respiratory infections.
The right time to stop is when you and your child want to. The AAP reccomends a minimum of one year, the WHO says a minimum of 2 years.
You should stop breastfeeding before the child begins to grow it's first tooth. It is unhealthy and can cause psychological damage to the child if breastfeeding is continued into the child's formative years. posted 10/13/2015 by a BabyCenter Member. Report answer.
Yes | No Thank you! The right time to stop is when you and your child want to. The AAP reccomends a minimum of one year, the WHO says a minimum of 2 years. Babies need whole milk until at least the age of 2, and breastmilk is whole milk, if you are still nursing then no other milk is needed. There are many benefits to nursing to 2 years and even longer! You can google extended breastfeeding or child-led weaning and get some info.