Our second line of defense. The second line of defense is the innate (or natural) immune system, so-called because all animals are born with it. Innate immunity provides the body with a non-specific defense against all objects or organisms perceived as being foreign
Cellular barriers to infection Part of the inflammatory response is the recruitment of polymorphonuclear eosinophiles and macrophages to sites of infection. These cells are the main line of defense in the non-specific immune system. In addition, the innate immune system also has anatomical features that function as barriers to infection. Although these two arms of the immune system have distinct functions, there is interplay between these systems (i.e., components of the innate immune system influence the adaptive immune system and vice versa).
Adaptive immunity refers to antigen-specific immune response. The adaptive immune response is more complex than the innate. The antigen first must be processed and recognized. Once an antigen has been recognized, the adaptive immune system creates an army of immune cells specifically designed to attack that antigen. Adaptive immunity also includes a memory that makes future responses against a specific antigen more efficient.
Features of an Immune Response. An immune response is generally divided into innate and adaptive immunity. Innate immunity occurs immediately, when circulating innate cells recognize a problem. Adaptive immunity occurs later, as it relies on the coordination and expansion of specific adaptive immune cells. An immunogen is used to activate the adaptive immune response so that specific memory cells are generated. Because BCRs and TCRs are unique, some memory cells are simply better at eliminating the pathogen.
Innate Immunity. The innate immune system is also known as the nonspecific immune system, which provides the first line of immunological defense against infection. The molecules and the receptors of the immune system provide a broad range of protection, so that it is also referred to as ‘natural immunity’. Adaptive Immunity. The adaptive or specific immune system mainly attacks the specific invaders. It consists of highly specialized cells called thymus-derived T lymphocyte cells and bone marrow-derived B lymphocyte cells.
The innate system is mainly composed of eosinophils, monocytes, macrophages, natural killer cells, tor-like receptors (TLRs), and a series of soluble mediators such as complement system. Adaptive Immunity. The adaptive or specific immune system mainly attacks the specific invaders. It consists of highly specialized cells called thymus-derived T lymphocyte cells and bone marrow-derived B lymphocyte cells.
The elements of the innate (non-specific) immune system (Table 2) include anatomical barriers, secretory molecules and cellular components. Among the mechanical anatomical barriers are the skin and internal epithelial layers, the movement of the intestines and the oscillation of broncho-pulmonary cilia. In addition, the innate immune system also has anatomical features that function as barriers to infection. Although these two arms of the immune system have distinct functions, there is interplay between these systems (i.e., components of the innate immune system influence the adaptive immune system and vice versa).
Definition. Innate immunity is an immunological subsystem that comprises the cells and mechanisms that provide the first line of defence from infection in a non-specific manner. Innate immune responses are rapid and independent of antigen. Innate immune systems are found in all classes of plants and animals