A set of gears provides a method to change the torque from a rotating object, such as the output shaft of a motor or engine, and either reduce the rate of rotation in exchange for an increase in torque (geared down), or increase the rate of rotation in exchange for a decrease in torque (geared up). Bicycle gears, as almost all gearing systems, is a way of trading strength for speed, or speed for strength. It allows the rider-the motor-to keep turning the pedals at a … comfortable pace and resistance regardless if the ride is flat, uphill or downhill.
Two or more gears working in a sequence (train) are called a gear train or, in many cases, a transmission; such gear arrangements can produce a mechanical advantage through a gear ratio and thus may be considered a simple machine. Geared devices can change the speed, torque, and direction of a power source. An external gear is one with the teeth formed on the outer surface of a cylinder or cone. Conversely, an internal gear is one with the teeth formed on the inner surface of a cylinder or cone. For bevel gears, an internal gear is one with the pitch angle exceeding 90 degrees.
The most common situation is for a gear to mesh with another gear; however, a gear can also mesh with a non-rotating toothed part, called a rack, thereby producing translation instead of rotation. The gears in a transmission are analogous to the wheels in a crossed belt pulley system. An external gear is one with the teeth formed on the outer surface of a cylinder or cone. Conversely, an internal gear is one with the teeth formed on the inner surface of a cylinder or cone. For bevel gears, an internal gear is one with the pitch angle exceeding 90 degrees.
The middle, medium-sized gear is an idler gear. An idler gear is a gear wheel that is inserted between two or more other gear wheels. The purpose of an idler gear can be two-fold. Firstly, the idler gear will change the direction of rotation of the output shaft. An idler-wheel drive is a system used to transmit the rotation of the main shaft of a motor to another rotating device, for example the platter of a record-reproducing turntable or the crankshaft-to-camshaft gear train of an automobile.
As a noun gear means a set of toothed wheels that work together to alter the speed of a driving mechanism and the speed of the driven parts. Example: gears on a vehicle or bic … ycle. Gear also means equipment that is used for a particular purpose, such as diving or camping gear. As a verb, gear mens to design or adjust the gears to give a specified speed or power output. 8 people found this useful. Bicycle gears, as almost all gearing systems, is a way of trading strength for speed, or speed for strength. It allows the rider-the motor-to keep turning the pedals at a … comfortable pace and resistance regardless if the ride is flat, uphill or downhill.
A very good example is a bicycle which has gears that make it easier to cycle, especially up hills. Bicycles normally have a large gear wheel which has a pedal attached and a selection of gear wheels of different sizes, on the back wheel. When the pedal is revolved the chain pulls round the gear wheels at the back. Types of Gears Bevel gears can be used to change the direction of drive in a gear system by 90 degrees. A good example is seen as the main mechanism for a hand drill. As the handle of the drill is turned in a vertical direction, the bevel gears change the rotation of the chuck to a horizontal rotation.
n. 1. (Mechanical Engineering) a toothed wheel that engages with another toothed wheel or with a rack in order to change the speed or direction of transmitted motion. 2. (Mechanical Engineering) a mechanism for transmitting motion by gears, esp for a specific purpose: the steering gear of a boat. 3. (Automotive Engineering) the engagement or specific ratio of a system of gears: in gear; high gear. gear-a toothed wheel that engages another toothed mechanism in order to change the speed or direction of transmitted motion. cogwheel, gear wheel, geared wheel. bevel gear, pinion and crown wheel, pinion and ring gear-gears that mesh at an angle. cog, sprocket-tooth on the rim of gear wheel.
An advantage of gears is that the teeth of a gear prevent slippage. When two gears mesh, and one gear is bigger than the other (even though the size of the teeth must match), a mechanical advantage is produced, with the rotational speeds and the torques of the two gears differing in an inverse relationship. An external gear is one with the teeth formed on the outer surface of a cylinder or cone. Conversely, an internal gear is one with the teeth formed on the inner surface of a cylinder or cone. For bevel gears, an internal gear is one with the pitch angle exceeding 90 degrees.