Lactic acid fermentation is a biological process by which glucose and other six-carbon sugars (also, disaccharides of six-carbon sugars, e.g. sucrose or lactose) are converted into cellular energy and the metabolite lactate. Lactic acid fermentation is used in many areas of the world to produce foods that cannot be produced through other methods. The most commercially important genus of lactic acid-fermenting bacteria is Lactobacillus, though other bacteria and even yeast are sometimes used.
Pyruvate, the product of glycolysis, can be used in fermentation to produce ethanol and NAD + or for the production of lactate and NAD + . The production of NAD + is crucial because glycolysis requires it and would cease when its supply was exhausted, resulting in cell death. 
However, muscle cells have the ability to produce a small amount of ATP through glycolysis in the absence of oxygen. The muscle cells convert glucose to pyruvic acid. Then an enzyme in the muscle cells converts the pyruvic acid to lactic acid. As in the yeast, this reaction frees up the NAD while providing the cells with two ATP molecules from glycolysis.
Fermentation is an anaerobic process in which energy can be released from glucose even though oxygen is not available. Fermentation occurs in yeast cells, and a form of fermen … tation takes place in bacteria and in the muscle cells of animals.   In yeast cells (the yeast used for baking and producing alcoholic beverages), glucose can be metabolized through cellular respiration as in other cells. However, muscle cells have the ability to produce a small amount of ATP through glycolysis in the absence of oxygen. The muscle cells convert glucose to pyruvic acid.
The immediate need of ATP in the muscle cell is the main cause of lactic acid fermentation. Lactic acid fermentation is an anaerobic process, meaning that oxygen is not needed. The second and third phases of cellular respiration are skipped, and instead of producing thirty six ATP molecules, only two are produced. As shown in the diagram, lactic acid is a byproduct of fermentation in the muscle cell. This lactic acid can be broken down in the presence of oxygen, but in the oxygen deprived conditions in which fermentation occurs, the lactic acid builds up and limits the amount of fermentation that can occur.
There are two types of fermentation... lactic acid and alcohol fermentation. In muscle cells, lactic acid fermentation occurs. During this type of fermentation, glucose is converted to 2 pyruvate in glycolysis (which can go on with or without oxygen). in this process, ADP changes into ATP and NAD+ changes into NADH. The muscle cells convert glucose to pyruvic acid. Then an enzyme in the muscle cells converts the pyruvic acid to lactic acid. As in the yeast, this reaction frees up the NAD while providing the cells with two ATP molecules from glycolysis.
Alcohol fermentation is the process that yields beer, wine, and other spirits. The carbon dioxide given off during fermentation supplements the carbon dioxide given off during the Krebs cycle and causes bread to rise. In muscle cells, another form of fermentation takes place. When muscle cells contract too frequently (as in strenuous exercise), they rapidly use up their oxygen supply. As a result, the electron transport system and Krebs cycle slow considerably, and ATP production is slowed. However, muscle cells have the ability to produce a small amount of ATP through glycolysis in the absence of oxygen. The muscle cells convert glucose to pyruvic acid.
Figure 7-21When little oxygen is available in muscle cells, fermentation allowsglycolysis to continue. As you read in Concept 7.5, glycolysis directly produces a net of twomolecules of ATP from each molecule of glucose it consumes. Fermentation in Human Muscle Cells If you exercise for a certain amount of time, your muscles mustregenerate ATP. Normally, the cells can produce ATP through cellularrespiration. But when you sprint, your lungs and bloodstream can't supplyoxygen fast enough to meet your muscles' need for ATP.
Lactic Acid Fermentation. Glycolysis is a metabolic reaction in which glucose is broken down to produce a substance called pyruvate. Pyruvate is the end product of the process of glycolysis, and it supplies energy to the muscles. Pyruvate provides energy to cells when oxygen is present by oxidizing to produce carbon dioxide. In anaerobic conditions, the pyruvate ferments to produce lactic acid. The lactic acid is used by your muscle cells to continue the process of metabolism of glucose for energy production. 
In homolactic fermentation, one molecule of glucose is ultimately converted to two molecules of lactic acid. Heterolactic fermentation, in contrast, yields carbon dioxide and ethanol in addition to lactic acid, in a process called the phosphoketolase pathway. Lactic acid fermentation is used in many areas of the world to produce foods that cannot be produced through other methods. The most commercially important genus of lactic acid-fermenting bacteria is Lactobacillus, though other bacteria and even yeast are sometimes used.