The employee used his company's procurement process to find a new vendor to purchase paper from at a lower cost than the previous supplier. (10) inventory control and stores, and. (11) disposals and other related functions. The process of procurement is often part of a company's strategy because the ability to purchase certain materials will determine if operations will continue. A business will not be able to survive if it's price of procurement is more than the profit it makes on selling the actual product
Procurement Definition – A Changing Environment. The procurement definition is the purchase of goods and services at the best possible prices, delivery dates and legal terms. Or procurement is a more up market name for purchasing
The process of purchasing these good and services is known as the Procure-To-Pay Cycle. The entire Procure-To-Pay Cycle can be an involved process with numerous steps: 1  Identification of Requirement. 2  Authorization of Purchase Request. 3  Approval of Purchase Request. 4  Procurement. 5  Identification of Suppliers. 
Purchasing is the formal process of buying goods and services. The purchasing process can vary from one organization to another, but there are some common key elements. The process usually starts with a demand or requirements – this could be for a physical part (inventory) or a service. 
It is important to define procurement process for a number of reasons. These include: 1  Consistency in procurement activity. 2  A predetermined framework that can be agreed upon by procurement stakeholders. 3  Clarity in targets for assessing or evaluating submissions from potential suppliers. 
Definition of PROCUREMENT. : the act or process of procuring; especially: the obtaining of military supplies by a government. ADVERTISEMENT. 14th century. 
Establishing a procurement process will not only involve planning the initial process framework but will also involve finessing the process with experience. The procurement process must allow for the input of procurement stakeholders for critical decision making activities. In planning the procurement process, agreement from stakeholders is essential. The process should contain a framework that allows for targets to be set at the beginning of the procurement process.
(October 2010). Procurement is the act of acquiring, buying goods, services or works from an external source. It is favourable that the goods, services or works are appropriate and that they are procured at the best possible cost to meet the needs of the acquirer in terms of quality and quantity, time, and location. 
It is a subset of the wider procurement process. Generally, purchasing refers to the process involved in ordering goods such as request, approval, creation of a purchase order record (a Purchase Order or P.O.) and the receipting of goods. 