U.S. retail sales of potato chip are over $6 billion a year. In 2003 the U.S. potato chip industry employed more than 65,000 people. *George Speck was born to Abraham and Catherine Speck. George also used the name Crum, as his father did while working as a jockey. 1 The potato chip did not leave the United States as a food item until 1921 when they were introduced in England. 2  Since the words chips was already in use for what we in this country call french fries, the word crisps was used. 3  The potato used for making chips is not the same brand of potato you get at the super market.
1 Herman Lay began selling potato chips in the south, and in 1932, he founded Lay's in Nashville, Tenn., as a distributor for a chip factory in Atlanta, Ga. 2  In 1938, Lay purchased the chip factory and started selling Lay's Brand Potato Chips. 3  In 1921, Bill and Salie Utz founded Utz Quality Foods in Hanover, Pa. As word of the chips got out, other restaurants began to serve them. It wasn't long before potato chips were a staple at restaurants across the country. William Tappendon of Cleveland, Ohio, is credited with taking the potato chip out of the restaurant and into the grocery store.
1 In 1938, Lay purchased the chip factory and started selling Lay's Brand Potato Chips. 2  In 1921, Bill and Salie Utz founded Utz Quality Foods in Hanover, Pa. 3  Utz marketed and sold chips made by his wife Salie, called Hanover Home Brand Potato Chips. As word of the chips got out, other restaurants began to serve them. It wasn't long before potato chips were a staple at restaurants across the country. William Tappendon of Cleveland, Ohio, is credited with taking the potato chip out of the restaurant and into the grocery store.
Pringles is a brand of potato and wheat based stackable snack chips owned by the Kellogg Company. Originally marketed as Pringles Newfangled Potato Chips, Pringles are sold in more than 140 countries, and have yearly sales of more than US$1.4 billion. They were originally developed by Procter & Gamble (P&G), who first sold the product in 1967. Pringles come in many flavors. Standard flavors include original, salt and vinegar, sour cream and onion, cheddar cheese, ranch dressing, barbecue, hot and spicy, and loaded baked potato.
Please try again later. Published on Sep 27, 2013. Potato chips were invented in 1853 by an American cook named George Crum, and they've been a popular food item ever since. Learn more about George Crum and the evolution of the potato chip in this episode of BrainStuff
A potato chip (American English) or crisp (British English) is a thin slice of potato that has been deep fried, baked, kettle cooked, or popped until crunchy. Potato chips are commonly served as a snack, side dish, or appetizer. The earliest reference of the potato chip in the United States is in Mary Randolph 's The Virginia House-Wife (1824), which includes a recipe explicitly derived from Kitchiner's earlier cookbook. Boston Housekeeper N.K.M.
Pringles were first sold in 1967, being distributed nationwide since 1975, and introduced overseas in 1991. P&G wanted to create a perfect chip to address consumer complaints about broken, greasy, and stale chips, as well as air in the bags. Pringles come in many flavors. Standard flavors include original, salt and vinegar, sour cream and onion, cheddar cheese, ranch dressing, barbecue, hot and spicy, and loaded baked potato.
In 1895, he began selling potato chips to local grocers and turned his barn into the world's first potato chip factory. During the early 1900s, several companies built large factories for the mass production of potato chips. And the 1920s saw the birth of three companies that define the potato chip industry: As word of the chips got out, other restaurants began to serve them. It wasn't long before potato chips were a staple at restaurants across the country. William Tappendon of Cleveland, Ohio, is credited with taking the potato chip out of the restaurant and into the grocery store.
Potato chips are a predominant part of the snack food market in Western countries. The global potato chip market generated total revenues of US$16.49 billion in 2005. This accounted for 35.5% of the total savory snacks market in that year ($46.1 billion). The earliest reference of the potato chip in the United States is in Mary Randolph 's The Virginia House-Wife (1824), which includes a recipe explicitly derived from Kitchiner's earlier cookbook. Boston Housekeeper N.K.M.