This doesn't mean that the name Kizzie is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. A derivative of the name might also be popular in US. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kizzie. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kizzie, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kizzie and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kizzie. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kizzie, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Comments and insights on the name Kizzie: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Kizzie: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Kizzie: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Kizzie: | Edit. Kizzie is a nickname for Kezia. 
Local language versions of biblical names of Hebrew origin such as Hannah and David are still widely internationally popular today. Modern Hebrew names are often derived from Hebrew vocabulary, for example Aviva (spring) and Dov (bear). Kizzie is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ki-zzie. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boy
The different meanings of the name Kizzie are: The meaning of the name “Kizzie” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kizzie. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kizzie, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Kizzy /kiz-zy/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Variant of Kezia (Hebrew) cassia. Literary: used in Alex Harley's Roots as a traditional African name. Use of Kezia and its variants can be traced back to slave names since the 18th century. Kreatif forms: Kezy, Kizky, Kyzy. Shown below is the baby name popularity of Kizzy for girls. Kizzy was first listed in 1970-1979 and reached its highest position of #821 in the U.S. in the 1970s, but is not in the Top 1000 at the moment. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Kizzie /kiz-zie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew derivation, and Kizzie means cassia tree. Kizzie is a variant transcription of Kezia (Hebrew). Kizzie is also a variation of Kizzy. Kreatif forms: Kazie, Kiazie, Kizie. Kizzie is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#3633 out of 4276, Top 85%) and an even more prominent surname for all people (#60390 out of 150436, Top 40%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Kizzie for girls
The meaning of Kizzie has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kizzie are: 1  Hebrew meaning: Cinnamon-like bark. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kizzie. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kizzie, spread the love and share this with your friends.
You can find out where the majority of the Kizzie families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. View all Kizzie ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Kizzie ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.