Plantar fibromatosis is a rare condition in which benign (non-cancerous) tumors called plantar fibromas grow on the bottom (plantar surface) of the foot. 
Aggressive fibromatosis (AF)(desmoid tumor) is a rare tumor characterized by a monoclonal proliferation of fibroblasts in muscles, tendons, and ligaments. It is histologically benign, but may be locally aggressive, invasive, and destructive. The tumor does not metastasize but recurs frequently following treatment. Aggressive Fibromatosis (Desmoid Tumor) ankle and foot, leg Tumors of Fibrous Tissue hip and proximal femur knee, thigh, distal femur, proximal tibia pelvis-entire shoulder, humerus, upper arm soft tissue.
Other names include musculoaponeurotic fibromatosis, referring to the tendency of these tumors to be adjacent to and infiltrating deep skeletal muscle, aggressive fibromatosis and desmoid tumor.. A clear difference should be made between intra-abdominal and extra-abdominal localizations. 
A desmoid tumor is an abnormal growth that arises from connective tissue, which is the tissue that provides strength and flexibility to structures such as bones, ligaments, and muscles. Typically, a single tumor develops, although some people have multiple tumors. The tumors can occur anywhere in the body. The most common symptom of desmoid tumors is pain. Other signs and symptoms, which are often caused by growth of the tumor into surrounding tissue, vary based on the size and location of the tumor. Intra-abdominal desmoid tumors can block the bowel, causing constipation.
Deep fibromatoses include extraabdominal fibromatosis, or extraabdominal desmoid tumors. The deep fibromatoses are tumors that have the capacity for infiltration and recurrence. 
A fibroma is a benign, tumor-like growth made up mostly of fibrous or connective tissue. Tumor-like growths such as fibroma develop when uncontrolled cell growth occurs for an unknown reason, or as a result of injury or local irritation. Fibromas can form anywhere in the body and usually do not require treatment or removal.
1. the presence of multiple fibromas. 2. the formation of a fibrous, tumor-like nodule arising from the deep fascia, with a tendency to local recurrence. aggressive fibromatosis desmoid tumor, particularly one that is extra-abdominal. fibromatosis gingi´vae, gingival fibromatosis noninflammatory fibrous hyperplasia of the gingiva manifested as a dense, diffuse, smooth or nodular overgrowth of the gingival tissues. 
The Greek word desmos which means tendon or band like has been the origin of the term desmoid and was coined by Muller in 1838. Desmoid tumor is called an aggressive fibromatosis as it has similarities with a malignant (cancerous) tumor called fibrosarcoma. However, it is considered benign because it does not metastasize (spread) to other parts of the body. 
Breast fibromatosis is sometimes also called a ‘ desmoid tumor ‘, or an ‘ extra-abdominal desmoid tumor ‘. Fibromatosis of the breast accounts for only about 0.2% of all primary breast tumors, however. 1 But in some types of fibromatosis, such as desmoid tumors, it is thought that the condition may be in relation to trauma, hormonal factors, or have a genetic association. 2  It has been reported to occur after breast implants.
Aggressive fibromatosis is a rare condition marked by the presence of desmoid tumors. When fibroblast cells undergo mutations they can become cancerous and become desmoid tumors (also known as aggressive fibromatosis). Desmoid tumors can arise in virtually any part of the body.