2. a: a poet appointed for life by an English sovereign as a member of the royal household and formerly expected to compose poems for court and national occasions b: a poet appointed annually by the United States Library of Congress as a consultant and typically involved in the promotion of poetry. 3. poet laureate. noun. Tweet. : a poet who is honored by being chosen for an official position by a ruler or government. plural poets laureate or poet laureates
noun (plural Poets Laureate or Poet Laureates). An eminent poet appointed as a member of the British royal household. Example sentences. 1  As well as the Thatchers, the village was also once home to Sir John Betjeman, the former Poet Laureate and was the birthplace of Thomas Hughes, the author of Tom Brown's School Days. 
The Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress serves as the nation's official lightning rod for the poetic impulse of Americans. During his or her term, the Poet Laureate seeks to raise the national consciousness to a greater appreciation of the reading and writing of poetry. The Poet Laureate is appointed annually by the Librarian of Congress and serves from September to May. Each Laureate brings a different emphasis to the position. Joseph Brodsky initiated the idea of providing poetry in airports, supermarkets and hotel rooms. Maxine Kumin started a popular series of poetry workshops for women at the Library of Congress.
The present laureate is Carol Ann Duffy, appointed in May 2009. The United Kingdom also has a Children's poet laureate. William Wordsworth was chosen as the poet laureate after the death of Robert Southey but since he was too old, he became the only laureate to write no official poetry. 1934); the Northampton Poet Laureate chosen by the Northampton Arts Council, and the Martha's Vineyard Poet Laureate chosen by ten judges representing the Martha's Vineyard Poetry Society. Over a dozen national governments continue the poet laureate tradition.
A poet laureate (plural: poets laureate) is a poet officially appointed by a government or conferring institution, who is often expected to compose poems for special events and occasions. 1934); the Northampton Poet Laureate chosen by the Northampton Arts Council, and the Martha's Vineyard Poet Laureate chosen by ten judges representing the Martha's Vineyard Poetry Society. Over a dozen national governments continue the poet laureate tradition.
Not bad for a day's work. A lmost every state has a poet laureate, as do many counties and municipalities. In the United States, it used to be more of an honorary title or fellowship, recognizing a distinguished publishing career but requiring little of the poet. 
As the concept of the poet laureate has spread, the term laureate has come in English to signify recognition for preeminence or superlative achievement (cf. Nobel laureate). As a royal degree in rhetoric, poet laureate was awarded at European universities in the Middle Ages. 1934); the Northampton Poet Laureate chosen by the Northampton Arts Council, and the Martha's Vineyard Poet Laureate chosen by ten judges representing the Martha's Vineyard Poetry Society. Over a dozen national governments continue the poet laureate tradition.
On August 10, 2011, Philip Levine was appointed the 18th Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress. As the current U.S. Poet Laureate, Levine now occupies one of the best known literary positions in the country. 
• POET LAUREATE (noun). The noun POET LAUREATE has 2 senses: 1. a poet who is unofficially regarded as holding an honorary position in a particular group or region. 2. the poet officially appointed to the royal household in Great Britain. Familiarity information: POET LAUREATE used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details. Context examples: she is the poet laureate of all lyricists / he is the poet laureate of Arkansas. Hypernyms (poet laureate is a kind of...): poet (a writer of poems (the term is usually reserved for writers of good poetry)).