The Ocotillo is a bajada resident that can be relied on to bloom annually, even without leafing in particularly dry springs. It is an inverted, funnel-shaped desert plant with several woody, spiny, whip-like, straight branches angling outward from the base and rising as high as 20 feet. 
Ocotillo plant (Fouquieria splendons). Description. The Ocotillo plant (Fouquieria splendons) is a desert dwelling plant that is typically found in the Southwestern United States and also in Northern Mexico. It is called by many names, such as Desert Coral, Coachwhip and Vine Cactus. The Ocotillo plant is regarded as a medicinal plant by many Native American tribes. The plant is harvested fresh or after a desert rain when it is plum and lush. Ocotillo bark extracts are used for therapeutic treatment of pelvic diseases and to improve systemic circulation.
There are many plants indigenous to Sonoran Desert; one of interest is the Ocotillo, or Vine Cactus. The Ocotillo prefers to grow in the Sonoran and Chihuahuan Deserts of Southeast. The Ocotillo is abundant in the Southwest because the soil is well drained on rocky slopes, mesas, out washed plains and desert grasslands. The ocotillo is deciduous, drought tolerant shrub. From its root crown it grows stems that can be any where from 9 to 30 feet tall. These stems grow in an S like pattern making the shrub look like an inverted funnel. The stems are covered with spines that can be 1.5 inches long. 
Ocotillo is not a true cactus. For much of the year, the plant appears to be an arrangement of large spiny dead sticks, although closer examination reveals that the stems are partly green. With rainfall, the plant quickly becomes lush with small (2–4 cm), ovate leaves, which may remain for weeks or even months. 
Identifying Features. Ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) are one of easiest plants to identify in the desert. They are a large shrub with long cane-like unbranched spiny stems that grow from a short trunk. Small 2 inch leaves will grow from the stems when there is enough moisture. Ocotillo (Fouquieria splendens) are one of easiest plants to identify in the desert. They are a large shrub with long cane-like unbranched spiny stems that grow from a short trunk
The ocotillo plant (Fouquieria splendens) is desert shrub that produces a spectacle of bright pink flowers on whip-like canes. It is often called ocotillo cactus, but is not truly a cactus, although it grows in similar conditions. The plant is native to the Sonoron and Chihuahuan deserts. Growing ocotillo requires a well-drained soil in full sun. Ocotillo plant tends to lose its leaves when exposed to extreme drought but leafs out in spring and summer rains. Ocotillo really has no special needs and is an easy to grow plant provided it is used in a climate that can provide plenty of sun and heat.
Alternate Planting Method Some people like to use a “mudding in” systemto plant ocotillo and other plants where it is hardto get the dirt packed in around and under theroots.For this method, dig your hole to the properdepth and place the ocotillo in the hole. 
One of the most common plants in our area is the Ocotillo. We love its odd growth habit and beautiful red flowers in the spring, so much so that it has become a common landscaping plant throughout the Southwest. But few people really know what it is. Though one of the most common plants in the Chihuahuan Desert, Ocotillo is also one of the most unusual, and is a primary determinant of the visual appearance of the desert.