The positions of the substituents are indicated by the Greek letters a, a', b', b' and so on. a, a' carbons being the ones directly attached to the carbonyl group.Examples: Ketones with a carbonyl group attached to a benzene ring are named as phenones in the IUPAC. Other examples of ketones. The IUPAC names of open chain aliphatic aldehydes and ketones are derived from the names of the corresponding alkanes by replacing the ending-e with-al and-one respectively. The following steps are followed: a) The longest carbon chain containing the carbonyl carbon is taken to decide the name of the parent alkane. 
Nomenclature IUPAC Names The naming of ketones is actually fairly simple, if you use the IUPAC method. It is very similar to the naming of alcohols. You start by choosing the longest carbon chain you can find that includes the carbon from the carbonyl group and use the length of that carbon chain as your base name.
IUPAC Names. The naming of ketones is actually fairly simple, if you use the IUPAC method. It is very similar to the naming of alcohols. You start by choosing the longest carbon chain you can find that includes the carbon from the carbonyl group and use the length of that carbon chain as your base name
 The carbonyl carbon is indicated by a number.  Common name given by the alkyl groups attached to the carbonyl group (alphabetical order) followed by ketone. IUPAC 2 -propan one 2 -butan one Common (dimethyl ketone) (ethyl methyl ketone) (Acetone)  Again, treat –OH groups as substituents: “hydroxy”.  Give position 1 to the carbonyl carbon.  If in the same molecule you find: o –OH groups, treat them as substituents with the name “ hydroxy ”. o Other carbonyl (ketone) groups, treat as a substituent with the name “ oxo ”. Naming Ketones  In the IUPAC system we use the-one ending
The IUPAC nomenclature of organic chemistry is a systematic method of naming organic chemical compounds as recommended by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC). Ideally, every possible organic compound should have a name from which an unambiguous structural formula can be created. 
Both common and International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) names are frequently used for aldehydes and ketones, with common names predominating for the lower homologs. The common names of aldehydes are taken from the names of the acids into which the aldehydes can be converted by oxidation. 1 For an aldehyde, drop the-e from the alkane name and add the ending-al. 2  Methanal is the IUPAC name for formaldehyde, and ethanal is the name for acetaldehyde. 3  For a ketone, drop the-e from the alkane name and add the ending-one.
1 Propanone is the IUPAC name for acetone, and butanone is the name for ethyl methyl ketone. 2  To indicate the position of a substituent on an aldehyde, the carbonyl carbon atom is always considered to be C1; it is unnecessary to designate this group by number. 1 For an aldehyde, drop the-e from the alkane name and add the ending-al. 2  Methanal is the IUPAC name for formaldehyde, and ethanal is the name for acetaldehyde. 3  For a ketone, drop the-e from the alkane name and add the ending-one.
This Leah4sci tutorial video shows you how to name molecules containing a carbonyl in the middle of the chain using my puzzle piece approach to IUPAC nomenclature. Naming examples include simple and substituted ketones, multiple carbonyls and cyclic ketones. (click to watch on YouTube. Video Transcript coming soon). 