The Senate Minority leader is to act as the chief spokesperson for the their respective party, and are responsible for the coordination and managing for their party's agenda in the Senate. Currently, the Senate Minority Leader is Republican Mitch McConnell from Kentucky. A Senate Minority Leaders must be kept up to date with the ongoing national and international agendas, while concurrently being fully aware of all pending legislative occurrences. Furthermore, the Senate Minority acts as the anchoring role for his/her respective party.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: This link explains the roles of both the Majority and Minority leaders in the Senate. The person that mentioned Pelosi is showing their ignorance, Pelosis is the House Speaker, she isn't even in the Senate, let alone the Majority Leader
The minority leader is often assisted in his/her role by one or more whips, whose job is to enforce party discipline on votes deemed to be crucial by the party leadership and to ensure that members do not vote against the position of the party leaders. In U.S. politics, the minority leader is the floor leader of the second largest caucus in a legislative body. Given the two-party nature of the U.S. system, the minority leader is almost inevitably either a Republican or a Democrat. The position is essentially that of the Leader of the Opposition
(March 2008). In U.S. politics, the minority leader is the floor leader of the second largest caucus in a legislative body. Given the two-party nature of the U.S. system, the minority leader is almost inevitably either a Republican or a Democrat. The position is essentially that of the Leader of the Opposition
Majority leader. In U.S. politics, the majority floor leader is a partisan position in a legislative body. In the federal Congress, the role of the Majority Leader of the United States House of Representatives and the Majority Leader of the United States Senate differ slightly. In the United States House of Representatives, the majority leader is elected by U.S. Congressmen in the political party holding the largest number of seats in the House.
The Senate is currently composed of 54 Republicans, 44 Democrats, and 2 independents, both of whom caucus with the Democrats. The current leaders are Republican Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada. The current Assistant Majority Leader is Republican John Cornyn of Texas. The Majority Leader customarily serves as the chief representative of his or her party in Senate, and sometimes even in all of Congress if the House of Representatives and thus the office of Speaker of the House is controlled by the opposition party.
Even though the Senate Minority Leader does not command as much power as the Majority Leader, the role still proves to be an important one. Party leaders in general ensure for the proper function of the Senate. A Senate Minority Leaders must be kept up to date with the ongoing national and international agendas, while concurrently being fully aware of all pending legislative occurrences. Furthermore, the Senate Minority acts as the anchoring role for his/her respective party.
The Assistant Majority and Minority Leaders of the United States Senate (commonly called Senate Majority and Minority Whips) are the second-ranking members of the party leadership of the United States Senate. The Majority Leader customarily serves as the chief representative of his or her party in Senate, and sometimes even in all of Congress if the House of Representatives and thus the office of Speaker of the House is controlled by the opposition party.