If child window already opened, close child window and re-open it, else open child window. Dec 09, 2009 05:18 AM |chuuburg |LINK. I need to duplicate this function without the short flash when the first window is opened, then closed, and opened agian. Re: If child window already opened, close child window and re-open it, else open child window. Dec 16, 2009 04:32 PM |yan1000 |LINK. hi, my question is very similar, all i want is open a new window with url like google.com, then i want to reuse that window with different url, so let say, 1st time i call function.
Re: If child window already opened, close child window and re-open it, else open child window. Dec 10, 2009 08:48 AM |chuuburg |LINK. hi, sorry but i cant use majority of the codes you gave me, because my drop down list is dynamic and linked to an xml/xsl file. Re: If child window already opened, close child window and re-open it, else open child window. Dec 16, 2009 04:32 PM |yan1000 |LINK. hi, my question is very similar, all i want is open a new window with url like google.com, then i want to reuse that window with different url, so let say, 1st time i call function.
As outlined here: http://www.faqts.com/knowledge_base/view.phtml/aid/1460. window.open() takes a second parameter, which is the name of the window. On refresh, you could check on the status of that window and close it if necessary. As discussed in the link, there's no direct way to check for the window after refresh, so you have to do something like this: and then operate on win. Have the child window execute a function every few seconds to check the parent window for a flag that signals it should close. The parent window can set the flag on a reload instead of trying to track down the child.
I have a small window that has a button to click to load the large window. When I close the large one, I want a particular onUnload or onBeforeUnload to fire iff the small one is closed; if it's still open, those procedures will not fire. window.closed will be set to true if you popped a window and it was closed (by script or user). Your case seems to be the following: From a popup window, you can check if the window that opened it is still open using window.opener.closed. Get handle to a window by name. I mentioned there's no way to just get the window handle by name in the comments
Check for Parent Window. Wondering if someone can help out with some javascript. I need to run a check on the page for a parent window. 1) If a parent window exists, then the submit button needs to close the current window. 2) If a parent window does not exist, then the submit button needs to redirect to another page. Thanks in advance for any help.
In this article I will explain how to refresh or reload parent page when the child popup page window is closed using JavaScript in ASP.Net. Parent Page. Below is the HTML markup of the parent page where I have placed an HTML input button which when clicked will open up the Child Page as popup window. I am displaying the Current Date Time on the Parent Page so that when the Parent Page is refreshed we will be able to notice the page refresh. Child Page. In the HTML markup of the Child page we need to place the JavaScript function RefreshParent which is called attached to the browser onbeforeunload event. Thus when the Child page popup window is closed the parent page is refreshed.
Re: If child window already opened, close child window and re-open it, else open child window. Dec 09, 2009 06:18 AM |muhammedsalimp |LINK. So you want to open a child page, Page2 from a parent page Page1, if it is not already opened. If Page2 is already opened, you need to close and reopen it. Re: If child window already opened, close child window and re-open it, else open child window. Dec 16, 2009 04:32 PM |yan1000 |LINK. hi, my question is very similar, all i want is open a new window with url like google.com, then i want to reuse that window with different url, so let say, 1st time i call function.