Recovery Mode HTC One VX. 1  In order to switch off the device, hold down the Power button for a while. 2  Then press and hold the Volume Down + Power key for a couple of seconds. 3  When you see Bootloader Mode menu release held buttons. 1 Then press and hold the Volume Down + Power key for a couple of seconds. 2  When you see Bootloader Mode menu release held buttons. 3  From the menu choose option  RECOVERY MODE  by using Volume buttons to scroll and Power key to select options. 4  Congratulations! 5  You should be right now in the expected mode.
1 In order to switch off the device, hold down the Power button for a while. 2  Then press and hold the Volume Down + Power key for a couple of seconds. 3  When you see Bootloader Mode menu release held buttons. 4  From the menu choose option  RECOVERY MODE  by using Volume buttons to scroll and Power key to select options. 1 Then press and hold the Volume Down + Power key for a couple of seconds. 2  When you see Bootloader Mode menu release held buttons. 3  From the menu choose option  RECOVERY MODE  by using Volume buttons to scroll and Power key to select options. 4  Congratulations! 5  You should be right now in the expected mode.
If HTC One VX is running slower than normal, is unresponsive, or has an app that is not performing properly, try rebooting and see if that helps solve the problem. 1  If the display is off, press the POWER button to turn it back on. 2  Unlock the display. If HTC One VX does not respond when you touch the screen or press the buttons, you can still restart it. Press and hold the POWER button for at least 10 seconds. HTC One VX then restarts.
Well doing a factory reset on the HTC One X is easier than you might think with two ways to accomplish it. If your phone just won’t turn on skip to the second method. HTC One X Factory Reset from Settings: 1  Go to the HTC One X Settings. 2  Select “Reset Phone”. 3  Then Tap “Erase Everything”. 4  Wait for the Reset and your done. HTC One X Factory Reset (Can’t get to Settings). 1  Hold the volume down button and power button. 2  When you see three Android images release all buttons. 3  Press Volume down to “Factory Reset”. 4  Press the Power button to select. 5  Wait for the HTC One X to Reset
1 First of all, switch off the phone by using the Power rocker. 2  After that, press and hold Volum Down and Power buttons together for a couple of seconds. 3  You can release all keys when the Bootloader Mode appears on the screen. 4  Choose the Factory Reset by pressing the Volum Down button to scroll and Power key to select. 1 Then press and hold the Volume Down + Power key for a couple of seconds. 2  When you see Bootloader Mode menu release held buttons. 3  From the menu choose option  RECOVERY MODE  by using Volume buttons to scroll and Power key to select options. 4  Congratulations! 5  You should be right now in the expected mode.
1 Press and hold the VOLUME DOWN button, and then press and hold the. 2  POWER button. 3  Wait for the screen with the three Android images to appear, and then release the POWER and VOLUME DOWN buttons. 4  Press VOLUME DOWN to select FACTORY RESET, and then press the POWER button. Be sure to back up any data and files you want to keep before you do a factory reset. Hard reset your HTC One VX as follows: 1  Slide the Notifications panel open, and then tap. 2  Tap Storage Factory data reset. 3  Tap Reset phone, and then tap Erase everything
If you can’t turn HTC One X on or access settings, you can still perform a factory reset by using the hardware buttons on HTC One X. 1. Press and hold the VOLUME DOWN button, and then press and hold the POWER button. 2. Wait for the screen with the three Android images to appear, and then release the POWER and VOLUME DOWN buttons. 3. Press VOLUME DOWN to select FACTORY RESET, and then press the POWER button. Factory reset will permanently delete all your data and customized settings, and will remove any applications you’ve downloaded and installed. Be sure to back up any data and files you want to keep before you do a factory reset. or.
From the Home screen, press MENU, and then tap Settings. 3. Tap Reset phone, and then tap Erase everything. If HTC One X does not respond when you touch the screen or press the buttons, you can still restart it. Press and hold the POWER button for at least 10 seconds, and then release it. 3. Press VOLUME DOWN to select FACTORY RESET, and then press the POWER button. Factory reset will permanently delete all your data and customized settings, and will remove any applications you’ve downloaded and installed. Be sure to back up any data and files you want to keep before you do a factory reset. or.