CVS: Most CVS stores will be open until 10 p.m. on Christmas Eve. Most CVS stores will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on Christmas Day. Check with your specific store for their hours. Pharmacy hours may vary.
Pharmacy hours vary – see your store for specific hours. Walgreens: Most Walgreens stores will be open until midnight through December 24. Most stores open 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.Christmas Day. 24-hour stores are always open, according to the company.
The stores are open the other 363 days of the year, although there are days when hours will vary from the typical schedule. For example, Target is open limited hours on Thanksgiving Day, and has extended hours on various days during the Christmas holiday shopping season.
Target is one of the retail stores which will be extending their opening hours the days before Christmas. The store will open the following hours leading up to Christmas: 1  Sunday, December 21: Target will be open from 8:00 AM to 11:00 PM. 2  Monday, December 22: Target will be open from 8:00 AM to 12:00 AM.
Quick Answer. Most Target stores are open during their normal business hours on holidays, from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Monday through Saturday or 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Sundays. This depends on which holiday it is and the location of the store.
Target is open for most holidays, with the exception of Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day and New Year's Day. In recent years, it has opened its doors early on Black Friday, opening at 6 a.m. and closing at midnight. Its normal business hours on other holidays are 8 a.m. to 11 p.m.
On Christmas Eve, Kmart will be open from 12:10 a.m. to 10 p.m., but will be closed on Christmas Day. Toys ‘R Us: Starting from Tuesday, the famous toy store will remain open for 24 hours every day, until 10 p.m. on Christmas Eve. Target: On Dec. 23 and Dec. 24, the store will be open from 7 a.m. to 12 a.m. The store
(I don't know if the store hours differ from place to place.). Update: I went to Target's website earlier, and while I do know that their hours of operation for late November/December are 8 a.m. to 11 p.m., I've been told that the hours of operation for Christmas Eve and Christmas Day are different.