ACTH. n. Adrenocorticotropic hormone; a hormone that is produced by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and that stimulates the secretion of cortisone, aldosterone, and other hormones by the adrenal cortex. Also called adrenocorticotropin, adrenotropin, corticotropin. ACTH. adrenocorticotropic hormone; produced by the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that stimulates the cortex of the adrenal gland to secrete its hormones, including corticosterone. If production of ACTH falls below normal, the adrenal cortex decreases in size, and production of the cortical hormones declines.
It is an important component of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and is often produced in response to biological stress (along with its precursor corticotropin-releasing hormone from the hypothalamus). Its principal effects are increased production and release of cortisol by the cortex of the adrenal gland. Conversely, deficiency of ACTH is a cause of secondary adrenal insufficiency, often as a result of hypopituitarism. ACTH is also related to the circadian rhythm in many organisms. In addition to its endogenous role, ACTH is used clinically as a diagnostic agent in assessing adrenal function.
Medical Definition of ACTH. : a protein hormone of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal cortex—called also adrenocorticotropic hormone. Definition of ACTH. : a protein hormone of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal cortex —called also adrenocorticotropic hormone. ADVERTISEMENT. a dreno c ortico t ropic h ormone.
The noun ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE has 1 sense: 1. a hormone produced by the anterior pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal cortex. Familiarity information: ADRENOCORTICOTROPIC HORMONE used as a noun is very rare.
Noun. 1. adrenocorticotropic hormone-a hormone produced by the anterior pituitary gland that stimulates the adrenal cortex. ACTH, adrenocorticotrophic hormone, adrenocorticotrophin, adrenocorticotropin, corticotrophin, corticotropin. endocrine, hormone, internal secretion-the secretion of an endocrine gland that is transmitted by the blood to the tissue on which it has a specific effect.
Adrenocorticotropic hormone, as its name implies, stimulates the adrenal cortex. More specifically, it stimulates secretion of glucocorticoids such as cortisol, and has little control over secretion of aldosterone, the other major steroid hormone from the adrenal cortex. 
Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), also known as corticotropin (INN, BAN) (brand names Acortan, ACTH, Acthar, Acton, Cortigel, Trofocortina), is a polypeptide tropic hormone produced and secreted by the anterior pituitary gland. Conversely, deficiency of ACTH is a cause of secondary adrenal insufficiency, often as a result of hypopituitarism. ACTH is also related to the circadian rhythm in many organisms. In addition to its endogenous role, ACTH is used clinically as a diagnostic agent in assessing adrenal function.
adrenocorticotropic. having a stimulating effect on the adrenal cortex; corticotropic. adrenocorticotropic hormone. acth, a hormone secreted by the anterior pituitary gland which has a stimulating effect on the adrenal cortex. Called also corticotropin. 1  Facebook. adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), a hormone of the adenohypophysis that stimulates growth of the adrenal cortex and the synthesis and secretion of corticosteroids.