By the time they are 6½-7 weeks, they should be fully weaned from the dam's milk, eating dry food, and drinking water. If the weaning is not rushed, the bitch will naturally start decreasing milk production as the puppies increase their intake of solid food. As the puppies begin eating the puppy mush at 4 weeks of age, start changing the bitch's diet back to adult food to also help her decrease milk production.
The definition of weaning – is to wean the young from the mother, from the mothers milk. Referring to the stage when puppies are introduced gradually to puppy food other than mothers’ milk or milk formula. A Puppy should be on 100% mothers milk (if orphaned then milk substitute) until the age of three weeks. 
At around three weeks of age, puppies begin to wean. They start eating and drinking and gradually give up nursing. Weaning is a process that takes two to three weeks to complete. From birth until about 3 weeks of age, a puppy's sole source of sustenance is mom's milk. During this time a puppy does not need supplemental food or water. Newborn pups nurse 12 times or more a day during their first week of life. At 10 days, their eyes and ears open and they become more mobile.
During the weaning process, it’s a good idea to feed puppies the same high-quality puppy food they’ll eat throughout their growth period right from the start. Be sure to moisten the food with warm water or canine milk replacer to create a soupy gruel that’s appealing to their sensitive palates. 
Another option available is what some breeders do when puppy weaning. They start weaning their puppies by replacing a meal from mom with a pan of warm formula. They gradually over the next few days will add pabulum to the formula. 
Whether puppies are orphaned or with their mothers, weaning can generally begin between three and four weeks of age, and is ideally completed by about seven to eight weeks of age. 
Weaning Begins. At around three weeks of age, puppies begin to wean. They start eating and drinking and gradually give up nursing. Weaning is a process that takes two to three weeks to complete. Puppies' milk teeth begin to grow in at about 3 weeks of age, making nursing uncomfortable for mom. From birth until about 3 weeks of age, a puppy's sole source of sustenance is mom's milk. During this time a puppy does not need supplemental food or water. Newborn pups nurse 12 times or more a day during their first week of life. At 10 days, their eyes and ears open and they become more mobile.
Once they reach about 3 weeks old, it is normal to start weaning your puppies from their mother’s milk. At this moment of transition, it is necessary to teach puppies to eat puppy food. As their caregiver, you should help facilitate this transition. After 1-2 weeks, you can introduce them again to dry food. 3. Feed the puppies 3 times a day during the puppy weaning process. Puppies under six months of age should be fed 3 times daily; after 6 months, they may be fed 2 times a day. 1  Make sure that you are feeding them at even increments and at the same time each day. 2  You want to get your new puppy on an eating schedule
When to Wean. The puppy's mother usually starts the weaning process usually when the puppy is around 3 to 4 weeks old. By the time a pup is 7 or 8 weeks old, she should be completely weaned from her mother and no longer nursing. Orphaned puppies may be weaned around the same age. It’s best not to wean before age 3 or 4 weeks because a whelp needs that time with her mother to learn important socialization and life skills. Her body isn't ready to digest puppy food until that time, either. If you are taking care of an orphaned puppy, the weaning process is just a bit different. For the first 3 to 4 weeks of her life, feed the puppy milk replacement formula with a bottle, dropper or syringe.