Types And Techniques Of Frenectomy. Frenectomy also called Oral Frenectomy, frenulotomy, frenulectomy is a surgical procedure wherein a thin layer of tissue called frenulum or frenum observed on various parts of the body is removed. 
Not to be confused with Phrenectomy, removal of the phrenic nerve. A frenectomy (also known as a frenulectomy, frenulotomy or frenotomy) is the removal of a frenulum, a small fold of tissue that prevents an organ in the body from moving too far. It can refer to frenula in several places on the human body. It is related to frenuloplasty, a surgical alteration in a frenulum. Done mostly for orthodontic purposes, a frenectomy is either performed inside the middle of upper lip, which is called labial frenectomy, or under the tongue, called lingual frenectomy. Frenectomy is a very common dental procedure in the dental world and is performed both on children and adults.
Frenectomy is a scary sounding word for a fairly simple and common procedure that addresses a few different medical problems, usually in the mouth and in children. The word frenum, or frenulum, describes the tough tissue that attaches any organ to the its neighboring tissue to prevent it from moving too much. Types of Frenectomy. Labial Frenectomy (upper lip): A labial frenectomy most often involves the frenum attaching the upper lip to the upper jaw, usually in children as their teeth and gums develop. The problem of the upper labial frenum is primarily one of aesthetics, but not necessarily.
A frenectomy is the surgical removal all or part of the frenulum, or frenum, which is a thin band of tissue that is found in various parts of the human body. This surgery is most often performed on frenum tissue that is found in the mouth. Frenum in the Mouth. There are two primary locations in the mouth where a frenum is found — under the tongue and underneath the center of the upper lip. In some cases, this tissue might interfere with the development or function of the lips or tongue.
Frenectomy. A frenectomy is a surgical procedure that removes or loosens a band of muscle tissue that is connected to the lip, cheek or floor of the mouth. It is usually performed under local anesthetic with uneventful healing
Lingual Frenectomy. A lingual frenectomy is the removal of the lingual frenum, which is the tissue under the tongue. In some cases, if the tissue is attached too closely to the tip of the tongue, it can interfere with the person's speech and hinder proper tooth development. Frenum in the Mouth. There are two primary locations in the mouth where a frenum is found — under the tongue and underneath the center of the upper lip. In some cases, this tissue might interfere with the development or function of the lips or tongue.
A labial frenectomy is a form of frenectomy performed on the lip. The labial frenulum often attaches to the center of the upper lip and between the upper two front teeth. This can cause a large gap and gum recession by pulling the gums off the bone. A labial frenectomy removes the labial frenulum.
A frenectomy is simply the removal of a frenum in the mouth. A frenum is a muscular attachment between two tissues. There are two frena (the plural form of frenum) in the mouth that can sometimes obstruct normal function and are candidates for frenectomies. A lingual frenectomy is a simple procedure and involves numbing the tongue with an anesthetic. A small incision is then made which will free the tongue from the floor of the mouth. The incision then will be sewn up to allow the tissue to heal.
A Short Guide To Frenectomy Treatment. A frenectomy is the surgical alteration of a frenum which is a fold of tissue which restricts movement. In the mouth this is generally a small portion of tissue related to the upper lip, the tongue, or the lower lip. 