1 Aneurysms may be characterized by a severe, pulsing pain in the chest (thoracic aneurysm) or lower back (abdominal aneurysm). 2  Many aneurysms are caused by atherosclerosis, a buildup of fatty plaque in the artery. 3  People with certain connective tissue disorders may also be at risk. An aneurysm is a weak spot in the wall of a blood vessel, which can cause the blood vessel to bulge. The most common aneurysms occur in the aorta, the large artery that sends blood from the heart to the rest of the body. A ruptured aneurysm can cause hemorrhaging (severe bleeding), which is often fatal.
Aneurysms that form in the lower part of your aorta — called abdominal aortic aneurysms — are more common than thoracic aortic aneurysms. An aneurysm can also occur in between the upper and lower parts of your aorta. This type of aneurysm is called a thoracoabdominal aneurysm. When they occur in the upper part of the aorta, they are called thoracic aortic aneurysms. Aneurysms can occur anywhere in the thoracic aorta, including the ascending aorta near the heart, the aortic arch in the curve of the thoracic aorta and the descending aorta in the lower part of the thoracic aorta.
An aortic aneurysm (say a-OR-tik AN-yuh-rih-zum) is a bulge in a section of the aorta, the body's main artery. The aorta carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Because the section with the aneurysm is overstretched and weak, it can burst. Blood flow often slows in the bulging section of an aortic aneurysm, causing clots to form. If a blood clot breaks off from an aortic aneurysm in the chest area, it can travel to the brain and cause a stroke. Blood clots that break off from an aortic aneurysm in the belly area can block blood flow to the belly or legs.
A thoracic aortic aneurysm is a weakened area in the upper part of the aorta — the major blood vessel that feeds blood to the body. Aneurysms can develop anywhere in the aorta. Aneurysms can develop anywhere along the aorta, which runs from your heart through your abdomen. When they occur in the upper part of the aorta, they are called thoracic aortic aneurysms. Aneurysms can occur anywhere in the thoracic aorta, including the ascending aorta near the heart, the aortic arch in the curve of the thoracic aorta and the descending aorta in the lower part of the thoracic aorta.
1 Aortic aneurysms that occur in the chest area are called thoracic aortic aneurysms and can involve the aortic root, ascending aorta, aortic arch or descending aorta. 2  Aneurysms that involve the aorta as it flows through both the abdomen and chest are called thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. 1 Aneurysms that occur in the section of the aorta that runs through the abdomen (abdominal aorta) are called abdominal aortic aneurysms. 2 
Aortic aneurysms cause weakness in the wall of the aorta and increase the risk of aortic rupture. When rupture occurs, massive internal bleeding results, and, unless treated immediately, shock and death can occur. Aortic aneurysms are classified by their location on the aorta. 1  An aortic root aneurysm, or aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva. 2  Thoracic aortic aneurysms are found within the chest; these are further classified as ascending, aortic arch, or descending aneurysms.
An aortic aneurysm is enlargement (dilation) of the aorta to greater than 1.5 times normal size. Aortic aneurysms are classified by their location on the aorta. 1  An aortic root aneurysm, or aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva. 2  Thoracic aortic aneurysms are found within the chest; these are further classified as ascending, aortic arch, or descending aneurysms.
1 Aortic aneurysms that occur in the chest area are called thoracic aortic aneurysms and can involve the aortic root, ascending aorta, aortic arch or descending aorta. 2  Aneurysms that involve the aorta as it flows thru both the abdomen and chest are called thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. The aorta is the largest artery in the body and is the blood vessel that carries oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all parts of the body. The section of the aorta that runs through the chest is called the thoracic aorta and, as the aorta moves down through the abdomen it is called the abdominal aorta.
An aortic aneurysm is an abnormal enlargement or bulging of the wall of the aorta. An aneurysm can occur anywhere in the vascular tree. The bulge or ballooning may be defined as a: 1  Fusiform: Uniform in shape, appearing equally along an extended section and edges of the aorta. The aorta is the largest artery in the body and is the blood vessel that carries oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all parts of the body. The section of the aorta that runs through the chest is called the thoracic aorta and, as the aorta moves down through the abdomen it is called the abdominal aorta.
An aneurysm that occurs in the chest portion of the aorta is called a thoracic (tho-RAS-ik) aortic aneurysm. An aneurysm that occurs in the abdominal portion of the aorta is called an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Aneurysms also can occur in other arteries, but these types of aneurysm are less common. 