More Answers. The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA. Hundreds of genes are linked together into enormous molecules called chromosomes (chromatin). 
Cell nuclei contain most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome. 
• Identified in 1833 by Robert Brown• Found in both plant and animal cells Nucleus • Large, oval shape• Centrally located in cell• Controls cell activities• Contains genetic information (DNA) • It’s like the Mayor’s Office in City Hall! 
Chromosomes and genes. Chromosomes, found in the cell nucleus [nucleus: Controls what happens inside the cell. Chromosomes are structures found in the nucleus of most cells. ] , contain many genes. A gene is a section of DNA [DNA: The material inside the nucleus of cells, carrying genetic information. DNA stands for Deoxyribonucleic Acid. 
~hope it helped~. The nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell 's hereditary information and controls the cell 's growth and reproduction. It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a structure called the nuclear envelope. It also controls the activities in a cell. The nucleus is small and round, and it works as the cell's control center. It contains x-shaped duffel bags calledchromosomes, and inside the chromosomes are DNA strands.
The nucleus is the part of the cell, or organelle, that contains the genetic material and controls the cell's movement. It consists of the genetic material, the nucleoleus, an … d the nuclear membrane. Nucleus-the nucleus controls all of the cells activities, including how the cell grows,develops,and divides. 10 people found this useful.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Angelpeak75. Confidence votes 127. The nucleus is the part of the cell, or organelle, that contains the genetic material and controls the cell's movement. It consists of the genetic material, the nucleoleus, and the nuclear membrane. Nucleus-the nucleus controls all of the cells activities, including how the cell grows,develops,and divides. 
1 Cell nucleus-a membrane-enclosed organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. 2  It contains most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. 