Another reason to become an electrician is the large number of different ways to specialize in the trade. Journeyman electricians can become auto electricians, motorcycle electricians, airplane electricians, marine electricians, etc. Why You Should Become An Electrician. If you’re looking for job that is physical, challenging, and technical then you should think about becoming a tradesman, and more specifically, an Electrician. Electrical work is for people who enjoy solving problems quickly and effectively while working with small teams
To become an electrician it is not compulsory to have the license. If you have displayed your skills on a certain level then license just becomes a redundant piece of paper. When you become an electrician, with or without license, then you will be able to enjoy the many benefits associated with a stable job. The most important quality to become an electrician is to have interest in the electrical things. If you don't have you heart into it then the success can elude you. Then your technical aptitude should be good enough. You should be able to grasp the newer circuits that you will face in the course of your job.
Working with electricity is a fulfilling career because it requires an electrician to have a good working knowledge of the relevant electric codes. Electrical work doesn’t get tedious, because every day brings something new and fresh to the profession. The Bureau of Labor Statistics also predicts that the demand for qualified electricians will explode in the next ten years. In fact, they expect more than 114,700 new electrician jobs to be created before over this time period, which is a staggering 20% increase.
Become an electrician with the help of the electrician's union. Know the requirements, how & where to apply and many more! The union apprenticeship program is a combined effort between the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) and the National Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee (N.J.A.T.C). Once you learn how to become an electrician and are licensed to practice, you'll find you have a lot of options in your new career. You can work indoors with residential wiring or work on power lines and climb poles in all kinds of weather.
You don’t have to be an electrician. The company I work for is begging for people skilled in PLC and HMI programming, CAD work, project maqnagement, etc, none of which absolutely require a degree. You can learn at a simple trade school. 2. I’d really like to be an electrician and 3. I should have studied a trade instead of liberal arts – I do LOVE anthropology but learning a skilled trade seems like it would have been the wiser investment at this point.
As an electrician you will experience the opportunity for advancement in your career. After starting as a service technician, hard-working and committed electricians can become promoted to field managers, operation managers and even distribution managers within their company and field. The Bureau of Labor Statistics also predicts that the demand for qualified electricians will explode in the next ten years. In fact, they expect more than 114,700 new electrician jobs to be created before over this time period, which is a staggering 20% increase.
This is especially true for electricians and for the other technical trades. If you live in a highly industrial area then that’s another great answer for why become an electrician. Electricians are highly sought after in industrial sectors or areas with large amount of construction due to their unique skills. Why You Should Become An Electrician. If you’re looking for job that is physical, challenging, and technical then you should think about becoming a tradesman, and more specifically, an Electrician. Electrical work is for people who enjoy solving problems quickly and effectively while working with small team
1. 1 1. If you have decided to become an electrician then the opportunities for you are enormous. Electricity has become a very important factor in our day to day life. Almost everything that we do in our day to day life is dependent on the electricity. The most important quality to become an electrician is to have interest in the electrical things. If you don't have you heart into it then the success can elude you. Then your technical aptitude should be good enough. You should be able to grasp the newer circuits that you will face in the course of your job.
Reason #1: Salary. One of the biggest reasons that people become electricians is the potential to make a very high and very steady salary. Most qualified electricians start out with a salary of $32,000-$40,000 per year. 