The Charms' version of the song went to number one on the R&B Best Sellers and number fifteen on the pop charts. A different song, also with the name Hearts of Stone, was written by Bruce Springsteen and recorded during the Darkness on the Edge of Town sessions (appears on the anthology box set Tracks). It was recorded and released by Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes on their 1978 album Hearts of Stone. 1 Anita, June, Helen and Mother Maybelle Carter performed a memorable live version of this song on an appearance filmed in color by Albert Gannaway in Nashville in the mid-1950s. 2  Red Foley opened both the first and last programs of Ozark Jubilee with the song.
Jack Nitzsche performs tambourine and piano. Heart of Stone was initially released in December 1964 as a single in the US where it became their second Top 20 US hit, reaching #19. The song was included on the US album The Rolling Stones, Now! the following February.
I need it. I can't believe you've got a heart of stone. The more you try to hide you love, the more it shows. I can't believe you've got a heart of stone. I can't believe it. I can't believe you've got a heart of stone. Your eyes say, Yes even when you tell me no. I can't believe you've got a heart of stone. I can't believe it. I can't believe you've got a heart of stone, no no.
Heart of Stone (#10, 1989) went double platinum with the singles If I Could Turn Back Time (#3, 1989), Just Like Jesse James (#8, 1989), and Heart of Stone (#20, 1989). Cher's cover of Betty Everett's The Shoop Shoop Song (It's in His Kiss) (#33, 1990) was featured in Mermaids. 
1 She sang some verses along with Bloom as the Winx band played it in the last episode of Season 4. 2  The first one was A Song for You or Magic in My Heart with Stella in episode fifteen of Season 2. 3  The second one was Endlessly with Bloom in episode sixteen of Season 4. 1 Musa was not heard singing in the first and third seasons. 2  The first one of the series is Wings. 3  The second one is A Sky Without Moon and Stars for the Rai dub and Magic in My Heart for the 4Kids. 4  The third one is A Song for You for the Rai dub and This Is the Beat for the 4Kids in a duet with Stella.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Heart of Stone  is a song by the English rock band The Rolling Stones, released as a single in the United States, and on an extended-play single in Europe, as pictured to the right. It was not released in the United Kingdom until featuring on the Out of Our Heads UK album released September 1965. Heart of Stone was initially released in December 1964 as a single in the US where it became their second Top 20 US hit, reaching #19. The song was included on the US album The Rolling Stones, Now! the following February.
Keith Richards, Bill Wyman and also Brian Jones sang backup vocals. Mr. Chimp-Brno, Czech Republic. The first version of this song was recorded with Jimmy Page,four years before his joining to Led Zeppelin,in June 1964.Jack Nitzsche probably played the piano. Per their custom the song is credited to Mick Jagger/Keith Richards. Jack Nitzsche played piano and tambourine on this track. Nitzsche was an important behind-the-scenes player, producer and arranger for The Rolling Stones and many other rock artists.
1 The seventh is We Are a Symphony in Season 6 in episode five. 2  This song is also Musa 's fifth duet. 3  She sang some verses along with Bloom as the Winx band played it in the last episode of Season 4. 4  The first one was A Song for You or Magic in My Heart with Stella in episode fifteen of Season 2. 1 Musa was not heard singing in the first and third seasons. 2  The first one of the series is Wings. 3  The second one is A Sky Without Moon and Stars for the Rai dub and Magic in My Heart for the 4Kids. 4  The third one is A Song for You for the Rai dub and This Is the Beat for the 4Kids in a duet with Stella.
1 This song is also Musa 's fifth duet. 2  She sang some verses along with Bloom as the Winx band played it in the last episode of Season 4. 3  The first one was A Song for You or Magic in My Heart with Stella in episode fifteen of Season 2. 4  The second one was Endlessly with Bloom in episode sixteen of Season 4. 1 Musa was not heard singing in the first and third seasons. 2  The first one of the series is Wings. 3  The second one is A Sky Without Moon and Stars for the Rai dub and Magic in My Heart for the 4Kids. 4  The third one is A Song for You for the Rai dub and This Is the Beat for the 4Kids in a duet with Stella.