Best Answer: Purines are the double ringed nitrogenous bases: Adenine and Guanine Pyrimidines are the single ringed bases: Cytosine, Thymine, and Uracil (in RNA). Source(s): Sophia J · 7 years ago. 
They are the nitrogen bases that are attached to RNA and DNA. In DNA, adenine and guanine are purines and thymine and cytosine are pyrimidines. In RNA, thymine is replaced by … pyrimidine uracil. 4 people found this useful. There are three nucleobases in nucleic acids that are considered  pyrimidines or pyrimidine derivatives. Uracil, cytosine, and  thymine are the thre
Definition. Pyrimidines are one of two biologically important families of nitrogen-containing molecules called nitrogenous bases. (Purines are the other family of nitrogenous bases.) Pyrimidines can be identified by their structure: six atoms in the shape of a ring. This ring is known as a pyrimidine ring. The pyrimidine ring is a heterocyclic compound, which means it contains atoms from at least two different element
Purines vs Pyrimidines. In microbiology, there are two types of nitrogenous bases that make up the two different kinds of nucleotide bases in DNA and RNA. These two types are called purines and pyrimidines.
The purines are made up of two-carbon nitrogen ring bases with four nitrogen atoms while the pyrimidines are made up of one-carbon nitrogen ring bases with two nitrogen atoms. These two compounds serve as building blocks for a wide variety of organic compounds that can be found in nature and in our bodies. In microbiology, there are two types of nitrogenous bases that make up the two different kinds of nucleotide bases in DNA and RNA. These two types are called purines and pyrimidines.
There are two kinds of nitrogen-containing bases-purines and pyrimidines. Purines consist of a six-membered and a five-membered nitrogen-containing ring, fused together. Pyridmidines have only a six-membered nitrogen-containing ring. 
In nucleic acids, nitrogenous bases contain either one ring or two fused rings. Purines are double-ring nitrogenous bases found in nature and include adenine and guanine. Thymine, cytosine and uracil are pyrimidines, single-ring nitrogenous bases found in nature. The sugar and nitrogenous base present in a nucleotide define the nucleotide and its functional role.
Purines and Pyrimidines are nitrogenous bases that make up the two different kinds of nucleotide bases in DNA and RNA. The two-carbon nitrogen ring bases (adenine and guanine) are purines, while the one-carbon nitrogen ring bases (thymine and cytosine) are pyrimidines.
Pyrimidine is an aromatic heterocyclic organic compound similar to pyridine. One of the three diazines (six-membered heterocyclics with two nitrogen atoms in the ring), it has the nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 in the ring. The other diazines are pyrazine (nitrogen atoms at the 1 and 4 positions) and pyridazine (nitrogen atoms at the 1 and 2 positions). In nucleic acids, three types of nucleobases are pyrimidine derivatives: cytosine (C), thymine (T), and uracil (U).