A Floating Production, Storage and Offloading (FPSO) unit is a floating vessel used by the offshore oil and gas industry for the production and processing of hydrocarbons, and for the storage of oil. A contract for an FPSO to operate in even deeper waters (2,900 m) for Shell's Stones field in the US Gulf of Mexico was awarded to SBM Offshore in July 2013. One of the world's largest FPSO is the Kizomba A, with a storage capacity of 2.2 million barrels (350,000 m 3).
Treated oil is transferred to cargo tanks in the FPSO ship’s hull. Treated gas is used as fuel for on-board power generation, and excess gas is either re-injected back into the subsea reservoirs or exported via a pipeline to shore. Water that is produced during production is discharged overboard, within the environmental limits. Alternatively, water may be injected into the reservoirs. Furthermore, it has storage capacity for the treated crude oil produced and is equipped with an offloading system to transfer the crude oil to shuttle tankers for shipment to refineries, rather than requiring a pipeline to transport oil to shore. FPSO Glas Dowr offloading to a shuttle tanker.
An FPSO turret requires a highly specialized fabrication. If the turret is attached to the floating unit, the turret is part of the mooring system and called Turret Mooring system. Depending on the type of vessel its operations location internal or external turret may be used. Definition. Turret is the major component of a vessel or any floating production unit (FPSO, FPO) to which the risers coming from the seabed are connected.
A Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) installation is a floating facility, usually based on a (converted) oil tanker hull. It is equipped with hydrocarbon processing equipment for separation and treatment of crude oil, water and gases, arriving on board from sub-sea oil wells via flexible pipelines. Furthermore, it has storage capacity for the treated crude oil produced and is equipped with an offloading system to transfer the crude oil to shuttle tankers for shipment to refineries, rather than requiring a pipeline to transport oil to shore. FPSO Glas Dowr offloading to a shuttle tanker.
Oil is accumulated in the FPSO until there is sufficient amount to fill a transport tanker, at which point the transport tanker connects to the stern of the floating storage unit and offloads the oil. There are two main types of FPSOs, the converted Oil tanker option or the purpose built option. Looking at South East Asia newer projects, the FPSO Kikeh is an external turret conversion vessel to be located in 1300 meter of water in the Kikeh field offshore eastern Malaysia. This FPSO is the first to be tied back to a spar like wellhead platform or WHP via a subsea suspended pipe bridge.
Oil is accumulated in the FPSO until there is sufficient amount to fill a transport tanker, at which point the transport tanker connects to the stern of the floating storage unit and offloads the oil. There are two main types of FPSOs, the converted Oil tanker option or the purpose built option. The first oil FPSO was the Shell Castellon, built in Spain in 1977. The first-ever conversion of a LNG carrier (Golar LNG owned Moss type LNG carrier) into an LNG floating storage and regasification unit was carried out in 2007 by Keppel shipyard in Singapore.
An FPSO stands for Floating Production Storage and Offloading and you need to understand a little about oil production before delving into the study of FPSO. Oil found inside the sea is taken out using production platforms which are within sufficient distance of the shore. 
FPSO (also called a unit and a system) is a type of floating tank system used by the offshore oil and gas industry and designed to take all of the oil or gas produced from nearby platforms or templates, process it, and store it until the oil or gas can be offloaded onto a tanker or transported through a pipeline. The first oil FPSO was the Shell Castellon, built in Spain in 1977. The first-ever conversion of a LNG carrier (Golar LNG owned Moss type LNG carrier) into an LNG floating storage and regasification unit was carried out in 2007 by Keppel shipyard in Singapore.
Acronym for Floating Production Storage and Offloading. FPSO is a floating vessel located near an oil platform, where oil is processed and stored until it can be transferred to a tanker for transporting. FPSOs can be converted former supertankers or can be purpose-built
About an FPSO. FPSO and FSO systems today have become the primary method for many offshore oil and gas producing regions around the world. An FPSO (Floating Production Storage and Offloading) is a floating production system that receives fluids (crude oil, water and a host of other things) from a subsea reservoir. Most FPSOs are ship-shaped and are 'anchored' (moored) by a turret. The type of turret used is determined by the environment of the FPSO