For other places with the same name, see Torquay (disambiguation). Torquay Town Hall. Torquay (pronounced Tor-key) [1] is an English town on the coast of Devon in the West Country and, since the 19th century, a fashionable seaside resort in the English Riviera. The town is situated on the English Channel, on the southern edge of Torbay, an east facing bay that is part of the larger Lyme Bay. 
During World War I, military hospitals were sited in Torquay – many survivors from the Battle of Gallipoli recuperated in the town – and it was used as a troop staging area. In September 1915 King George V and Queen Mary visited. Torquay is part and the Administrative HQ of Torbay, created in 1968 as a County with Torquay being the county town before returning under Devon County in 1974, from the amalgamation of the Boroughs of Torquay, Paignton and Brixham.
Torquay is the 'Surfing Capital of Australia'. Torquay Beach was the site of the first malibu board demonstration in Australia, back in 1956. Today Torquay is more important for being the closest town to the famous Bells Beach, and the stepping-off point for a number of surfing locations along the Great Ocean Road. Strapper Surf Shop is based out of Torquay on the Surf coast in Victoria, Australia with Bells Beach and Winkipop surf breaks just down the road. Its roots stemming from the fledgling Torquay Surf Industry.
Torquay is situated on the southwestern coast of England, forming one third of Torbay, on the western side of the bay. It has a mild microclimate, receiving among the longest hours of sunlight per day in the south west of the United Kingdom, with winters that tend to be mild and wet. Torquay is part and the Administrative HQ of Torbay, created in 1968 as a County with Torquay being the county town before returning under Devon County in 1974, from the amalgamation of the Boroughs of Torquay, Paignton and Brixham.
Torquay-Australia's Surfing Capital. Home to world famous Bells Beach and the birth place of iconic surf brands, Torquay is the surfing capital of Australia. Located 95km South West of Melbourne, it is the official start of the Great Ocean Road. Strapper Surf Shop is based out of Torquay on the Surf coast in Victoria, Australia with Bells Beach and Winkipop surf breaks just down the road. Its roots stemming from the fledgling Torquay Surf Industry.
In 1927, Torquay finally won their first league title since the Torquay and District League of 1912, winning the western division of the Southern League, United had the same number of points as Bristol City Reserves, but their 3–1 win on the final day of the season helped them to win the league on goal difference. Torquay lost 1–0 to the higher-placed Division One club, but the official attendance of 21,908 remains a Club record. Following their FA Cup heroics, in the 1956/57 season Torquay just missed out on promotion to Division Two
General information. The beach front town of Torquay is located 22 kilometres south of Geelong and at the northern end of the Surf Coast section of the Great Ocean Road. 
Torquay was the home of the writer Agatha Christie, who was born in the town and lived there during her early years. The town contains an Agatha Christie Mile, a tour with plaques dedicated to her life and work. Torquay is part and the Administrative HQ of Torbay, created in 1968 as a County with Torquay being the county town before returning under Devon County in 1974, from the amalgamation of the Boroughs of Torquay, Paignton and Brixham.
Torquay. Dose up on surf culture at Torquay, the home of Bells Beach and birthplace of iconic brands Rip Curl and Quicksilver. The official start point of the Great Ocean Road, Torquay is Victoria's surfing and beach worship capital. Visit over Easter and see the world's best surfers compete in the mighty Rip Curl Pro. Some of the biggest names in surfwear and accessories had their start in Torquay and their influence is on show at Surf City Plaza, a shopping precinct devoted to the sport. Stock up on the latest from the likes of Rip Curl, Quiksilver, Strapper, Gash and Rojo.