Guideline on the use of bovine serum in the manufacture of human biological medicinal products EMA/CHMP/BWP/457920/2012 Page 7/8 7.3.5. Other bovine viruses Methods based on the detection of viral DNA suggest that bovine polyoma v irus (BPyV) is a common contaminant of bovine serum. Guideline on the use of bovine serum in the manufacture of human biological medicinal products EMA/CHMP/BWP/457920/2012 Page 4/8 Notwithstanding the above, efforts should be made to reduce the use of bovine serum or to replace its use with material of non-animal origin.
Bovine Serum Albumin. Bovine Serum Albumin (BSA) is commonly used in cell culture protocols, particularly where protein supplementation is necessary and the other serum components are unwanted. In cell culture, it acts as a small molecule carrier. Because of its negative charge, Bovine Serum Albumin : The solution stability of Bovine Serum Albumin is excellent especially if the solutions are stored as frozen aliquots. 1  Albumin is used to solubilize lipids, and it is also used as a blocking agent in Western Blot or ELISA applications.
Bovine serum albumin (often from a fetal bovine source) is also used as a nutrient in cell and microbial culture. In molecular biology BSA is used to stabilize some restriction enzymes during digestion of DNA and to prevent adhesion of the enzyme to reaction tubes, pipet tips, and other vessels. Bovine serum albumin (also known as BSA or Fraction V) is a serum albumin protein isolated from cows. Rockland produces BSA in various formats for use in immunology, biochemistry and biotechnology.
For the family of mammalian albumins, see serum albumin. Bovine serum albumin (also known as BSA or Fraction V) is a serum albumin protein derived from cows. It is often used as a protein concentration standard in lab experiments
Fetal bovine serum (FBS) or fetal calf serum is the blood fraction remaining after the natural coagulation of blood, followed by centrifugation to remove any remaining red blood cells. Fetal bovine serum comes from the blood drawn from a bovine fetus via a closed system of collection at the slaughterhouse. Fetal bovine serum is the most widely used serum-supplement for the in vitro cell culture of eukaryotic cells. This is due to it having a very low level of antibodies and containing more growth factors, allowing for versatility in many different cell culture applications. The globular protein, bovine serum albumin (BSA), is a major component of fetal bovine serum.
The most widely used animal serum supplement is fetal bovine serum, FBS. Since serum in general is an ill-defined component in cell culture media, a number of chemically defined serum-free media formulations have been developed in the last two decades. Alternatives to the use of fetal bovine serum: serum-free cell culture. Gstraunthaler G(1). Author information: (1)Department of Physiology, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria. gerhard.gstraunthaler@uibk.ac.at. Serum is commonly used as a supplement to cell culture media. It provides a broad spectrum of macromolecules, carrier proteins for lipoid substances and trace elements, attachment and spreading factors, low molecular weight nutrients, and hormones and growth factor
Production [edit]. Fetal bovine serum is a by-product of the meat industry. Fetal bovine serum, as with the vast majority of animal serum used in cell culture, is produced from blood collected at commercial slaughterhouses from cattle bred to supply meat destined for human consumption. This is due to it having a very low level of antibodies and containing more growth factors, allowing for versatility in many different cell culture applications. The globular protein, bovine serum albumin (BSA), is a major component of fetal bovine serum.