vsserv.exe is a process which forms a critical part of the Bull Guard Internet Security suite and the BitDefender AntiVirus. This application protects your computer against Internet-bound threats. This program is important for the stable and secure running of your computer and should not be terminated. Non-system processes like vsserv.exe originate from software you installed on your system. Since most applications store data in your system's registry, it is likely that over time your registry suffers fragmentation and accumulates invalid entries which can affect your PC's performance
To help you analyze the vsserv.exe process on your computer, the following programs have proven to be helpful: Security Task Manager displays all running Windows tasks, including embedded hidden processes, such as keyboard and browser monitoring or Autostart entries. Therefore, please read below to decide for yourself whether the vsserv.exe on your computer is a Trojan that you should remove, or whether it is a file belonging to the Windows operating system or to a trusted application.
vsserv.exe is a process which forms a critical part of the Bull Guard Internet Security suite and the BitDefender AntiVirus. This application protects your computer against Internet-bound threats. This program is important for the stable and secure running of your computer and should not be terminated. 
The vsserv.exe process, at times is known to consume a large amount of CPU resources and cause your system to slow down substantially or to freeze up. If the vsserv.exe process is regularly hampering your system’s performance, you may want to switch to a protective tool that consumes less system resources. No, you should not terminate this process. Vsserv.exe is an essential process and is essential for secure and stable running of your PC. Also, you should let this process run automatically when your system starts.
The vsserv.exe process is associated with the Bull Guard Internet Security Suite and the BitDefender Antivirus. It is an important process and keeps your system protected from various internet-bound threats. File Information. By default, the file vsserv.exe is stored in a subfolder of C:\Program files. No, you should not terminate this process. Vsserv.exe is an essential process and is essential for secure and stable running of your PC. Also, you should let this process run automatically when your system starts.
If vsserv.exe is located in a subfolder of C:\, the security rating is 62% dangerous. The file size is 389,120 bytes (44% of all occurrences), 462,848 bytes, 335,872 bytes, 385,024 bytes or 446,464 bytes. It can change the behavior of other programs or manipulate other programs. Therefore, please read below to decide for yourself whether the vsserv.exe on your computer is a Trojan that you should remove, or whether it is a file belonging to the Windows operating system or to a trusted application.
vsserv.exe is a process which forms a critical part of the Bull Guard Internet Security suite and the BitDefender AntiVirus. This application protects your computer against Internet-bound threats. This program is important for the stable and secure running of your computer and should not be terminated. Run Windows Repair Tool to repair vsserv.exe related Windows Errors. 3. Run MalwareBytes to remove persistent malware. Process name: BitDefender Security Service or Bitdefender Security Service or The Shield Deluxe or The Shield Deluxe Security Service or Defender Pro Security Service.
Therefore, you should check the vsserv.exe process on your PC to see if it is a threat. We recommend Security Task Manager for verifying your computer's security. This was one of the Top Download Picks of The Washington Post and PC World. Therefore, please read below to decide for yourself whether the vsserv.exe on your computer is a Trojan that you should remove, or whether it is a file belonging to the Windows operating system or to a trusted application.
The vsserv.exe process is also known as BitDefender Security Service or, as the case may be, The Shield Deluxe (Version 2009 Security Service) and is a part of BitDefender (Version 10, 11, 2009, 9 Professional Plus, 9, 8, 9 Internet Security, 2010) or, as the case may be, The Shield Deluxe (Version 2009, 2010). vsserv.exe is not part of Windows, but it is important nonetheless. Vsserv.exe is found in a subdirectory of C:\Program Files (e.g. C:\Program Files\Softwin\BitDefender8\ respectively C:\Program Files\BullGuard\).