Major airports near Ellicott City, Maryland: The nearest major airport is Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport (BWI / KBWI). This airport has international and domestic flights from Baltimore, Maryland and is 11 miles from the center of Ellicott City, MD. Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD / KIAD) has international and domestic flights from Dulles, Virginia and is 53 miles from Ellicott City, MD.
3. Turn left to merge onto Crain Hwy/MD-3 N toward Baltimore 8.7 mi. 4. Merge onto I-97 N/MD-3 N via the ramp to Baltimore. Continue to follow I-97 N 5.9 mi. 5. Take exit 14A-B for MD-100 E toward Ellicott City/Gibson Island 0.3 mi. 6. Take exit 14B on the left to merge onto MD-100 W toward Ellicott City 2.4 mi. 7. Take exit 11 to merge onto MD-170 N/Telegraph Rd toward Linthicum. Continue to follow MD-170 N 3.2 mi. 8. Take the exit toward Hourly Parking/BWI Airport Terminal 0.3 mi. 9. Merge onto I-195 E 0.4 mi. 10
Domestic airports near Ellicott City, MD. 11 miles: Baltimore, MD (BWI / KBWI) Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport. 42 miles: Washington, DC (DCA / KDCA) Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. 53 miles: Dulles, VA (IAD / KIAD) Washington Dulles International Airport. Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD / KIAD) has international and domestic flights from Dulles, Virginia and is 53 miles from Ellicott City, MD.
Closest Airport to Ellicott City, MD. The closest airport is Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshal Airport (BWI). Distance from Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshal Airport to Ellicott City is 15,2 kilometers (9,4 miles). Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshal Airport is located approximately 2,6 kilometers (1,6 miles) west of Ferndale and about 4,0 kilometers (2,5 miles) west of Glen Burnie.
Another major airport is Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA / KDCA), which has international and domestic flights from Washington, District of Columbia and is 42 miles from Ellicott City, MD. Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD / KIAD) has international and domestic flights from Dulles, Virginia and is 53 miles from Ellicott City, MD.
Major cities near Ellicott City, MD. This is a list of large cities closest to Ellicott City, MD. A big city usually has a population of at least 200,000 and you can often fly into a major airport. If you need to book a flight, search for the nearest airport to Ellicott City, MD. 1  10 miles to Baltimore, MD. 2  29 miles to Washington, DC. 3  99 miles to Philadelphia, PA. 4  169 miles to Norfolk, VA. 5  173 miles to Virginia Beach, VA. 6  173 miles to Newark, NJ. 
The closest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is about 29 drivin … g miles from the center of Ocean City, MD. The closest major airport to Ocean City, Maryland is Salisbury-Ocean City Wicomico Regional Airport (SBY / KSBY). This airport is in Salisbury, Maryland and is about 29 drivin … g miles from the center of Ocean City. + 12 others found this useful. Silvia Romans.
This is an online tool to search airports in Maryland,US nearest to city, town or village in Maryland,US and display them on the map with their distances. To search the nearest to city airport in Maryland,US, first enter the city / town / village name for which you want to search the nearest Maryland,US airport. Then click 'Search' button, which will return matching city / town / village names in Maryland,US. The links of the result page will be displayed.