Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Answers Publisher. Confidence votes 262K. Blood vessels are surrounded by smooth muscle. This is often known as visceral muscle. This type of muscle also lines the blood vessels and internal organs.
Visceral muscle tissue, or smooth muscle, is tissue associated with the internal organs of the body, especially those in the abdominal cavity. There are three types of muscle in the body: skeletal, smooth, and cardiac. As with any muscle, the smooth, involuntary muscles of the visceral muscle tissue (which lines the blood vessels, stomach, digestive tract, and other internal organs) are composed of bundles of specialized cells capable of contraction and relaxation to create movement. If one... Click to read more below.
Skeletal muscle uses and demands nutrients and oxygen that are supplied by blood vessels that enter the muscle along the connective tissue partitions and eventual form capillary networks that surround each muscle fiber. 2. Perimysium. The muscle fibers bound together by the endomysium form a bundle called a fascicle. The fascicles are surrounded by connective tissue containing collagen and elastic fibers that supports the blood vessels and nerves that serve the fibers of the fascicles. This connective tissue is called the perimysium. 3. Epimysium
The first and largest bundle is made up of muscle fibers in which there are nerves, blood vessels, and connective tissue. Each fiber is built up from smaller strands called myofibrils, and each myofibril contains interlaced filaments of muscle proteins. As with any muscle, the smooth, involuntary muscles of the visceral muscle tissue (which lines the blood vessels, stomach, digestive tract, and other internal organs) are composed of bundles of specialized cells capable of contraction and relaxation to create movement. If one... Click to read more below.
53. Blood is moved through the vascular system by. valves in the walls of the blood vessels. peristalsis caused by the smooth muscle in the blood vessel walls. pressure gradients created by the heart. osmotic pressure. 54. 
Branches of the nerve and blood vessels follow the connective tissue components of the muscle of a nerve cell and with one or more minute blood vessels called capillaries. An individual skeletal muscle may be made up of hundreds, or even thousands, of muscle fibers bundled together and wrapped in a connective tissue covering. Each muscle is surrounded by a connective tissue sheath called the epimysium. Fascia, connective tissue outside the epimysium, surrounds and separates the muscles. Portions of the epimysium project inward to divide the muscle into compartment
Coronary Circulation. The heart muscle, like every other organ or tissue in your body, needs oxygen-rich blood to survive. Blood is supplied to the heart by its own vascular system, called coronary circulation. The aorta (the main blood supplier to the body) branches off into two main coronary blood vessels (also called arteries). These coronary arteries branch off into smaller arteries, which supply oxygen-rich blood to the entire heart muscle. The right coronary artery supplies blood mainly to the right side of the heart. 