Tags: Psychosocial interventions can improve a smoker's chance of making a successful quit attempt. The greater the number of professionals involved in the smoking cessation intervention, the greater the likelihood of success (i.e., higher cessation rates). 
Psychosocial Treatments. Psychosocial treatments include different types of psychotherapy and social and vocational training, and aim to provide support, education and guidance to people with mental illness and their families. 
32 Psychosocial interventions for drug misuse www.nta.nhs.uk • The dysfunctional interaction styles in couples where drug misuse is present • The impact of mental health problems on family and couple relationships. 2.2 Who the framework is for The framework is a guide to, and a source of reference information on, evidence-based psychosocial interventions for drug misusers. It has relevance to a wide range of staff working in drug treatment, including practitioners, service managers and commissioners.
It’s especially important to try to educate family members to support someone who is ill, since negative treatment of an illness by family can have an adverse effect. In psychosocial interventions that are designed for groups, another effective tool is utilizing group therapy or other forms of peer support. Often, the approach of educating the individual about his or her place in society and the appropriate normal behavior (in other words, the exact goal of psychosocial intervention) is preferable to using drugs to alter an individual's behavior. When non-medical therapy is an option, that is the way to go.
This review of psychological and psychosocial interventions for children and young people should be read in conjunction with the review of brief interventions contained in the NICE public health guidance (NICE, 2010a), and the review of psychological interventions for adults contained within this guideline. The 12-step principles were first set out in a publication by AA in the 1950s. AA describes itself as a ‘Fellowship’ and AA groups are widely available in the UK as support networks for people with alcohol dependence. AA is a self-help movement with the 12-step principles at the core.
Psychosocial Intervention. Psychosocial interventions and support services describe a wide variety of services, supports and strategies that aim to change behaviour and support people who are affected by alcohol and drug use. These are services which are provided within community settings. These types of services provide a range of psychosocial (non-medical) interventions for people with alcohol and drug issues including assessment, counselling, case management, coordination of care, group work, information, community education and professional consultation to other service providers.
It is usually used in the context of psychosocial intervention, which is commonly used alongside psycho-educational or psycho-pharmacological interventions and points toward solutions for individual challenges in interacting with an element of the social environment. The individual needs not be fully aware of this relationship with his or her environment. It was first commonly used by psychologist Erik Erikson in his stages of social development. Contrasted with social psychology, which attempts to explain social patterns within the individual.
INTRODUCTION. A range of psychological and psychosocial interventions for depression have been shown to relieve the symptoms of the condition and there is growing evidence that psychosocial and psychological therapies can help people recover from depression in the longer-term (NICE, 2004a). The majority of available trials of psychological and psychosocial interventions have focused on the acute treatment of depression, usually of mild to moderate severity (although it should be noted that many of the participants in these trials will have had a number of previous episodes of depression).
For a concept to be psychosocial means it relates to one's psychological development in, and interaction with, a social environment. The individual needs not be fully aware of this relationship with his or her environment. It was first commonly used by psychologist Erik Erikson in his stages of social development. Contrasted with social psychology, which attempts to explain social patterns within the individual.