Nigeria is a country in West Africa. Nigeria shares land borders with the Republic of Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north. Its coast lies on the Gulf of Guinea in the south and it borders Lake Chad to the northeast. The annual rainfall received in this region is very high, usually above the 2,000 mm (78.7 in) rainfall totals giving for tropical rainforest climates worldwide. Over 4,000 mm (157.5 in) of rainfall is received in the coastal region of Nigeria around the Niger delta area.
The South American savanna types cerrado sensu stricto and cerrado dense typically have densities of trees similar to or higher than that found in South American tropical forests, with savanna ranging 800–3300 trees/ha and adjacent forests with 800–2000 trees/ha. Sometimes midwestern savanna were described as grassland with trees. Different authors have defined the lower limits of savanna tree coverage as 5–10% and upper limits range as 25–80% of an area. Two factors common to all savanna environments are rainfall variations from year to year, and dry season wildfires.
There are relatively few forest industries in the Nigerian savanna, but there are three sawmills, a match factory, a paper mill using imported pulp and a number of small furniture factories. There is a considerable production of small poles for local use. Economic aspects of savanna afforestation in Nigeria. Of the 5 million square miles of African savanna, about 300 000 square miles or 190 million acres, representative of all the different west African types, occur
Savannah: The word 'Savannah' is an Indian American name which means a grassland area with no forest cover. It has its most extensive belt over the high interior plateau of the African continent. Thus, the term savannah is commonly used to describe areas within the tropics under grass or grass with scattered trees. Savannah vegetation in Nigeria, as in other parts of West Africa, consists of three major belts, from south to north, viz: Guinea Savannah Sudan Savannah; and Sahel Savannah. 
A savanna or savannah is a grassland ecosystem characterised by the trees being sufficiently widely spaced so that the canopy does not close. Sometimes midwestern savanna were described as grassland with trees. Different authors have defined the lower limits of savanna tree coverage as 5–10% and upper limits range as 25–80% of an area. Two factors common to all savanna environments are rainfall variations from year to year, and dry season wildfires.
Nigeria is found in the Tropics, where the climate is seasonally damp and very humid. Nigeria is affected by four climate types; these climate types are distinguishable, as one moves from the southern part of Nigeria to the northern part of Nigeria through Nigeria's middle belt. The annual rainfall received in this region is very high, usually above the 2,000 mm (78.7 in) rainfall totals giving for tropical rainforest climates worldwide. Over 4,000 mm (157.5 in) of rainfall is received in the coastal region of Nigeria around the Niger delta area.
Savannas are also characterised by seasonal water availability, with the majority of rainfall confined to one season; they are associated with several types of biomes, and are frequently in a transitional zone between forest and desert or grassland. Savanna covers approximately 20% of the Earth's land area. Sometimes midwestern savanna were described as grassland with trees. Different authors have defined the lower limits of savanna tree coverage as 5–10% and upper limits range as 25–80% of an area. Two factors common to all savanna environments are rainfall variations from year to year, and dry season wildfires.
The Sahel Climate or Tropical dry climate, is the predominant climate type in the northern part of Nigeria. Annual rainfall totals are lower compared to the southern and central part of Nigeria. Rainy season in the northern part of Nigeria last for only three to four months (June–September). The annual rainfall received in this region is very high, usually above the 2,000 mm (78.7 in) rainfall totals giving for tropical rainforest climates worldwide. Over 4,000 mm (157.5 in) of rainfall is received in the coastal region of Nigeria around the Niger delta area.
The Tropical savanna climate or Tropical wet and dry climate, is extensive in area and covers most of Western Nigeria to central Nigeria beginning from the Tropical rainforest climate boundary in southern Nigeria to the central part of Nigeria, where it exerts enormous influence on the region. The annual rainfall received in this region is very high, usually above the 2,000 mm (78.7 in) rainfall totals giving for tropical rainforest climates worldwide. Over 4,000 mm (157.5 in) of rainfall is received in the coastal region of Nigeria around the Niger delta area.
Soil Physical Conditions in Nigerian Savannas and Biomass Production 365 The Savannas of Nigeria and Agricultural Production Nigeria is located in the tropical zone (between latitude 4 o and 14 o N, and longitude 2 o E), with a vast area having savanna vegetation (Figure 1). Improvement of the physical fertility of a degraded Alfisol with planted and natural fallows under humid tropical conditions. Soil Use and Management 17: 41-47. Salako, F. K., Tian, G. and Kang, B. T. 2002. Indices of root and canopy growth of leguminous cover crops in the savanna zone of Nigeria.