A sarcoma is a type of cancer that develops from certain tissues, like bone or muscle. Bone and soft tissue sarcomas are the main types of sarcoma. Soft tissue sarcomas can develop from soft tissues like fat, muscle, nerves, fibrous tissues, blood vessels, or deep skin tissues. They can be found in any part of the body. Most of them develop in the arms or legs. 
1 Smooth muscle, neither striated in structure nor under voluntary control, is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair). In vertebrates, there is a third muscle tissue recognized: 1  Cardiac muscle (myocardium), found only in the heart, is a striated muscle similar in structure to skeletal muscle but not subject to voluntary control.
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary.
Muscle tissue is the type of flesh that forms muscles. Muscles can be found almost anywhere in the body. Most are attached to bones (such as the bones in arms, legs, fingers and toes) because their function is to move those bones. Human muscle tissues are either skeletal, smooth, or cardiac. Each  has unique properties. Skeletal muscle is used to move you around,  breathe, etc. Smooth muscle is found … in blood vessels, and cardiac  muscle is found only in the heart.
Skeletal muscle tissue is found in our skeletal muscles; for example, the biceps. Cardiac muscle is found in our heart, and smooth muscle is found in our visceral, or hollow, organs-for example, blood vessels and intestines. All muscles contract as a result of interaction between special proteins within the myocytes. 
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Muscle tissue is also found inside of the heart, digestive organs, and blood vessels. In these organs, muscles serve to move substances throughout the body.... 
Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated. In vertebrates, there is a third muscle tissue recognized: 1  Cardiac muscle (myocardium), found only in the heart, is a striated muscle similar in structure to skeletal muscle but not subject to voluntary control.
There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. a. skeletal muscle: multinucleated, striated; attached to bones producing locomotion, general support and posture; producing heat. Contraction is voluntary, and not long-sustained. MUSCLES AND MUSCLE TISSUE. Muscle is composed of fibers, nerves and connective tissues and account for over 40% of the body weight. The fibers contract to produce tension on the associated tissues or tendons. Muscle tissue is enclosed in facia, which in turn is attached to other structures including ligament.
Muscle tissue, one of the four major tissue types, plays the vital role of providing movement and heat generation to the organs of the body. Within muscle tissue are three distinct groups of tissues: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle. Each of these tissue groups is made of specialized cells that give the tissue its unique properties.