Look up Robert in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. The name Robert is a Germanic given name, from Old High German Hrodebert bright with glory (a compound of hruod fame, glory and berht bright). It is also in use as a surname. Robert, and also the name Joseph, were in the top 10 most given boys' names in the US for 47 years, from 1925 to 1972. In Italy during the Second World War, the form of the name, Roberto, briefly acquired a new meaning derived from, and referring to the Rome-Berlin-Tokyo Axis.
Robert /ro-bert/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced RAH-bert. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Robert is bright fame. A favorite name for boys since the Middle Ages. Especially favored by the Scots due to 14th-century King Robert the Bruce and to poet Robert Burns. Name of an 11th-century Duke of Normandy who was also a Crusader.
Origin of the name Robert: Introduced to England by the Normans, Robert is derived from the Old High German Hruodperht, a compound name composed of the elements hruod (fame) and perht (bright). The name was borne by Robert I (d. 1035), duke of Normandy and father of William the Conqueror, and by three kings of Scotland.
It is more often used as a boy (male) name. People having the name Robert are in general originating from Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Rwanda, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, United States of America, Venezuela. History and Origin. The name Robert is a Germanic given name, from Old High German Hrodebert “bright with glory” (a compound of hruod “fame, glory” and berht “bright”). It is also in use as a surname.
Meaning of Robert. English name. In English, the name Robert means-bright fame. Other origins for the name Robert include-English, French, German, Scottish.The name Robert is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-bright fame. Origin-England. Alternate Origins-French German Scottish
Meaning & History. From the Germanic name Hrodebert meaning bright fame, derived from the Germanic elements hrod fame and beraht bright. The Normans introduced this name to Britain, where it replaced the Old English cognate Hreodbeorht. It has been a very common English name since that time. The name has been borne by two early kings of France, two Dukes of Normandy, and three kings of Scotland, including Robert the Bruce who restored the independence of Scotland from England in the 14th century. 
The name Robert is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Robert is: Bright fame. English Meaning: The name Robert is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed; bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys name since the Middle Ages. French Meaning: The name Robert is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed; bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys name since the Middle Ages. Scottish Meaning: The name Robert is a Scottish baby name.
German Meaning: The name Robert is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed, bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys' name since the Middle Ages. Famous Bearers: Scottish national hero Robert the Bruce and novelist Robert Ludlum. An all-time favorite boys name since the Middle Ages. French Meaning: The name Robert is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed; bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys name since the Middle Ages. Scottish Meaning: The name Robert is a Scottis