Answer. Arrears payroll means employees are paid approximately two weeks after the end of a pay cycle. Employees are paid for the 1st-15th of each month at the end of that month. Then employees are paid for the 16th-31st of each month in the middle of the following month (15th or 16th). 
In business, payroll governs all the forms of compensation that a company uses. At its most basic form, payroll is made of wages and salaries, but a company must account not only for taxes and incentive plans, but a number of fees and costs about which the employee may not be completely aware. Elements. Gross payroll is made out of several elements. The major component is the main form of compensation, given in either a wage or a salary. But many employees also receive money from bonuses, overtime, pay for time off and time sick and payment allowances for tools and services they need to buy.
Payroll taxes are taxes imposed on employers or employees, and are usually calculated as a percentage of the salaries that employers pay their staff. Payroll taxes generally fall into two categories: deductions from an employee’s wages, and taxes paid by the employer based on the employee's wages. 
Definition. Gross payroll is the total amount of money designated for a particular employee or for all employees in the business, depending on how the term is being used. The goal is to provide a maximum figure that can be easily examined by managers, payroll employees and analysts. Elements. Gross payroll is made out of several elements. The major component is the main form of compensation, given in either a wage or a salary. But many employees also receive money from bonuses, overtime, pay for time off and time sick and payment allowances for tools and services they need to buy.
DEFINITION of 'Payroll'. The sum total of all compensation that a business must pay to its employees for a set period of time or on a given date. Payroll is usually managed by the accounting department of a business. Small-business payrolls may be handled directly by the owner or an associate. Payroll can also refer to the list of employees of a business and the amount of compensation that is due to each of them. Payroll is a major expense for most businesses and is almost always deductible as such. Payroll can differ from one pay period to another due to overtime, sick pay and other variables
• PAYROLL (noun). The noun PAYROLL has 3 senses: 1. a list of employees and their salaries. 2. the total amount of money paid in wages. 3. the department that determines the amounts of wage or salary due to each employee. Familiarity information: PAYROLL used as a noun is uncommon.
Gross payroll is the total amount of money designated for a particular employee or for all employees in the business, depending on how the term is being used. Elements. Gross payroll is made out of several elements. The major component is the main form of compensation, given in either a wage or a salary. But many employees also receive money from bonuses, overtime, pay for time off and time sick and payment allowances for tools and services they need to buy.
A payroll is a company's list of its employees, but the term is commonly used to refer to: 1  the total amount of money that a company pays to its employees. 2  a company's records of its employees' salaries and wages, bonuses, and withheld taxes. 1 the total amount of money that a company pays to its employees. 2  a company's records of its employees' salaries and wages, bonuses, and withheld taxes. 3  the company's department that calculates and pays these.