Every SWAP’n’GO gas bottle is precision filled, on a digital scale, to either 8.5kg (large bottles) or 3.7kg (medium bottles) and leak tested by Elgas technicians. So, you can rest assured that the bottle you buy from SWAP'n'GO is safely filled. SWAP’n’GO also performs two leak checks on each cylinder before it is delivered to your local dealer. We always check the inspection date on every cylinder we fill and only those with valid dates are filled.
Kleenheat (Kwik Gas) and Elgas (Swap n Go) both accept out of date cylinders provided they are in an acceptable condition. eediot on 27/01/2014 - 16:21 ¶. Depends who you get serving you…. Duff5000 on 26/01/2014 - 08:03 ¶. Did a swap at my local milk bar the other day for $20. PVA on 27/01/2014 - 18:12 ¶. I took a swap n go from the local petrol station and swapped at bunnings today-different gas bottle companies-they dont care as long as the bottle is in date.
No waiting to have your 9kg gas bottle refilled. With our gas bottle swap refills, you get a fresh cylinder every time. The 9kg gas bottle is yours to keep. Hundreds of NZ SWAP'n'GO gas bottle swap outlets, city and country. You can swap any brand of 9kg BBQ cylinder at SWAP'n'GO. Receive an inspected, tested and safely filled cylinder. You never have to worry about checking test dates, SWAP'n'GO cylinders are always in date.
♦ 4kg bottles with regular & Camper Valves. ♦ No waiting to have your gas bottle refilled. ♦ Swap for a fresh gas bottle every time. ♦ The 4kg or 9kg gas bottle is yours to keep. ♦ Thousands of outlets, city and country. ♦ Swap any brand of BBQ bottle at SWAP'n'GO. ♦ Receive an inspected, tested and safely filled gas bottle. See How to SWAP'n'GO. ♦ You never have to worry about checking test dates, SWAP'n'GO gas bottles are always in date. ♦ SSSSSSSee our BBQ Gas Bottle Sizes page for 4kg & 9kg gas bottle size information. ♦ SWAP'n'GO complies with all Australian Standards for Caravan Gas Bottles. *Actual fill of a 9kg gas bottle is 8.5kg
Out west, Autogas is the same propane as swap-n-go. About $10 to fill a 9kg BBQ cylinder, if you had a tap on your car. Or you can pipe natural gas from the house. Costs about the same as autogas by my calculations – 10c/kWHr. It's easier/cheaper to swap them over before they run out. Once they are renewed, I'll go back to getting them filled at the hardware/gas depot for the next ten years at a saving of at least $15 per fill (compared to swap n go).
Price Questions. The following are many of the frequently asked questions about SWAP'n'GO®, BBQ gas bottles and gas cylinder exchange from customers and discussions in online forums. If you have a question that is not answered here, please feel free to send us an Online Enquiry. So, you can rest assured that the bottle you buy from SWAP'n'GO is safely filled. SWAP’n’GO also performs two leak checks on each cylinder before it is delivered to your local dealer. We always check the inspection date on every cylinder we fill and only those with valid dates are filled.
SWAP'n'GO LPG. Firing up the barbie or heating the sitting room has never been easier. At Z you can swap your 9kg gas bottle for a fresh new one with SWAP'n'GO LPG. Available at every single Z operated station, SWAP'n'GO is fast, safe and easy: 1  You don't have to stand around waiting while your bottle is refilled. 2  You get to swap your old bottle for a fresh new bottle which is yours to keep
Organisation name: n/a Issue type: Comment. The density of propane is 0.5077 kg/L and as the swap and go bottles are filled to 8.5 Kg you would get about 17 litres of liquid. At $27.50 for a swap the propane would cost $3.23 per litre or about $2.50 more than the bowser price. But to offset this you get a cylinder with a current date stamp and the convenience. I think that is the same for 9 kg bottles (AND TO BUY NEW ARE ONLY $50 OR SO). It only costs about $10 to fill a 8.5kg gas bottle the swap and go price i paid was $34 Where is the $24 going sure some profit for service and some testing fees.
I am moving & the removalist won't take my gas bottle. SWAP'n'GO offers a mover’s transfer service, with which you can to take your BBQ gas bottle to your nearest Elgas branch and reclaim another one at the Elgas branch nearest to your destination. So, you can rest assured that the bottle you buy from SWAP'n'GO is safely filled. SWAP’n’GO also performs two leak checks on each cylinder before it is delivered to your local dealer. We always check the inspection date on every cylinder we fill and only those with valid dates are filled.
A new (unfilled) gas bottle is around $40-$50, Swap n' Go is $39.95 (filled) at my local servo. My two gas bottles are out of date in the new year, cost/hassle of getting retested, plus they have lost some of their paint over the years and have small rusty bits (surface only) starting to show through the paint. It's easier/cheaper to swap them over before they run out. Once they are renewed, I'll go back to getting them filled at the hardware/gas depot for the next ten years at a saving of at least $15 per fill (compared to swap n go).