Trans fat (also called trans fatty acid) is created when unsaturated fats are hydrogenated (combined with hydrogen), a chemical process that causes fats that would normally be liquid at room temperature to become solid. A American Heart Association-Stroke Association answered. Trans fats, also called trans fatty acids, are a type of fat formed when liquid vegetable oils go through a chemical process in which hydrogen is added to make the oils more solid.
Small amounts of trans fat (generally 2-5% of the fat content) are naturally present in foods such as dairy products, beef and lamb. Some liquid vegetable oils such as canola and soybean, and fish oils, can also contain small amounts of trans fats, which can be formed during the commercial refinement of these oils. These oils may contain up to 2.5% trans fatty acids, but are also important sources of the essential omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. Trans fats can also be formed when manufacturers use a chemical process that turns liquid oil into a semi-solid form, like shortening and margarines. The process is referred to as partial hydrogenation.. Fats and oils that are solid or semi-solid at room temperature have advantages for food production
Most of the trans fat in the foods we eat is formed through a manufacturing process that adds hydrogen to vegetable oil, which converts the liquid into a solid fat at room temperature. This process is called hydrogenation. Partially hydrogenated oils are the major source of artificial trans fats in the food supply. Artificial trans fat can be found in many of the same foods as saturated fat, including: 1  Baked goods (cookies, cakes, pies, and crackers). 2  Ready-to-use frostings.
During the hydrogenation process, conducted at high temperature (typically 260ºC) and pressure, the unsaturated oil is subject to structural transformation. Double bonds in the constituent fatty acids, which are naturally in the cis configuration, can flip to a trans configuration, so creating trans 'isomers'. 
Trans fats, or trans-unsaturated fatty acids, trans fatty acids, are a type of unsaturated fats that are uncommon in nature but became commonly produced industrially from vegetable fats for use in margarine, snack food, packaged baked goods and frying fast food starting in the 1950s. In other countries, there are legal limits to trans fat content. Trans fats levels can be reduced or eliminated using saturated fats such as lard, palm oil or fully hydrogenated fats, or by using interesterified fat.
Trans fats are one type of fatty acid formed during the processing of partial hydrogenation. They are found naturally in some foods but mostly from foods that are partially hydrogenated. Trans fats act like saturated fat in the body and tend to raise blood cholesterol levels. A American Heart Association-Stroke Association answered. Trans fats, also called trans fatty acids, are a type of fat formed when liquid vegetable oils go through a chemical process in which hydrogen is added to make the oils more solid.
Industrial trans fatty acids are unnatural fat molecules formed by a process called partial hydrogenation. (A small amount of a beneficial isomer of trans fat is found in meat fats and butter.) In the partial hydrogenation process, heated liquid oils are flooded with hydrogen gas in the presence of a nickel catalyst.
Most of the trans fat in the foods we eat is formed through a manufacturing process that adds hydrogen to vegetable oil, which converts the liquid into a solid fat at room temperature. This process is called hydrogenation. Partially hydrogenated oils are the major source of artificial trans fats in the food supply. Artificial trans fat can be found in many of the same foods as saturated fat, including: 1  Baked goods (cookies, cakes, pies, and crackers). 2  Ready-to-use frostings. 3  Snack food (such as potato chips and microwave popcorn). 4  Fried food typically found in fast food restaurants (such as French fries, fried chicken, and doughnuts).
Trans fat in your food. The manufactured form of trans fat, known as partially hydrogenated oil, is found in a variety of food products, including: 1  Baked goods. 2  Most cakes, cookies, pie crusts and crackers contain shortening, which is usually made from partially hydrogenated vegetable oil. But most trans fat is formed through an industrial process that adds hydrogen to vegetable oil, which causes the oil to become solid at room temperature. This partially hydrogenated oil is less likely to spoil, so foods made with it have a longer shelf life.