1 Costs vary considerably for smaller projects, such as repairing the stucco after installing new windows. 2  For example, a Northern California contractor has a minimum fee of $1,200 to repair stucco around two medium-sized windows. Traditional exterior stucco is made of natural materials; it consists of three layers or coats of a mix of sand, cement and water, applied over a wire or wood lath. Mock or synthetic stucco is lighter, and often uses a foam insulation base. Typical costs:1  Stucco installation runs around $6-$9 a square foot, or about $12,000-$18,000 for a 2,000-square-foot exterior of a 3-bedroom home, depending on the complexity of the project, the location and the local economy.
How to stucco a cinder block wall. Skim coat CMU walls, Stucco Videos. Howdy guys and gals, step-by-step instructions on stucco application & finishing tips and techniques. in this video I explain step by step how to repair this wall. Here we show how to apply stucco over a painted stucco finish and a cinder block base. how to Stucco, Patch Repair over cinder block wall. How to stucco a cinder block wall. How to skim coat CMU walls. How to stucco a cinder block wall. Skim coat CMU walls, Stucco Videos, render a cinder block walls, rendering block walls, render videos.
https://youtu.be/4ikshIi7zm4 Structo Lite over brick, cinderblock. https://youtu.be/T5kA6KdfAE8 Make stucco like concrete, cinder blocks, bricks. https://youtu.be/gxoXGFCBv2U Stucco thickness Cinder block CMU walls. https://youtu.be/RZzPoNBPN54 Why stucco plaster fails cinder blocks or concrete. https://youtu.be/OIO4dlgvdyE Plastering Cinder block walls. https://youtu.be/TuwvarKFpko How to skim coat cinder block walls. 
$11.78. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Stucco! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Stucco Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Stucco ranges between $6.79 - $11.78 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Andabove all, it must bond the stucco tothe block.Coats and ThicknessFor block wall construction, ASTMC-926, “Installation of PortlandCement Based Plaster” contains pro-Figure 6visions for either a two-coat or three-coat application (Table 2). 
CMU and Stucco: Mortar, Sand and Masonry: Mortar is a 3:1 Mix Ratio for Block and Stucco, 1 CF of Mortar = .97 CF of Sand to .33 CF of Masonry. Mortar for Block is 8.5 CF of Mortar per 100 Square Feet of Block Wall Area, for a 3/8” Joint. Stucco Masonry is alculated at 1” thick for a ¾” Finish Thickness which includes waste.
RE: approximate cost to stucco a block wall? I have a block wall that encloses my back yard. It is about 7 feet tall by about 100 feet long.....Any idea how much it would cost to stucco this in Phoenix? I just want to get a ballbark idea before I start contacting contractors for quotes.... A typical 3 coat stucco system will cost roughly $32.50 a square yard-or $3.61 per square foot to do. Costs will vary based on whether you are using a synthetic intragral colored finish coat or painting it or leaving it natural as well as any specialty textures to the finish. Best of luck
Step 3: Obtain Materials. One cubic foot of stucco will cover about 17 square feet of wall for the base coat. Expected coverage for factory-prepared finish stucco is stated on the label. You need about 1 cubic foot of damp sand and 1/4 to 1/3 bag of cement and the same amount of lime to make a cubic foot of plaster. Step 4: Dampen the Wall. 