Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Inherited metabolic disorders refer to different types of medical conditions caused by genetic defects — most commonly inherited from both parents — that interfere with the body's metabolism. These conditions may also be called inborn errors of metabolism. Inherited metabolic disorders fall into different categories, depending on the specific substance and whether it builds up in harmful amounts (because it can't be broken down), it's too low, or it's missing. Some metabolic disorders can be diagnosed by routine screening tests done at birth.
Inherited metabolic disorders are a range of diseases caused by defective genes. Though rare, they can have devastating consequences for patients and their families. Research by the pharmaceutical industry has led to many specialised treatments. In the human body, the urea cycle is the metabolic pathway allowing the transformation of ammonia into urea. In children with N-acetylglutamate synthetase (NAGS) deﬁciency, the disorder leads to a build up of ammonia in the blood which can cause irreversible brain damage or death.
Traditionally the inherited metabolic diseases were classified as disorders of carbohydrate metabolism, amino acid metabolism, organic acid metabolism, or lysosomal storage diseases. In recent decades, hundreds of new inherited disorders of metabolism have been discovered and the categories have proliferated. In most of the disorders, problems arise due to accumulation of substances which are toxic or interfere with normal function, or to the effects of reduced ability to synthesize essential compounds. Inborn errors of metabolism are now often referred to as congenital metabolic diseases or inherited metabolic diseases.
The code or blueprint to produce an enzyme is usually contained on a pair of genes. Most people with inherited metabolic disorders inherit two defective copies of the gene -- one from each parent. Both parents are carriers of the bad gene, meaning they carry one defective copy and one normal copy. In the parents, the normal gene copy compensates for the bad copy. In most inherited metabolic disorders, a single enzyme is either not produced by the body at all or is produced in a form that doesn't work. The missing enzyme is like an absentee worker on the assembly line.
Definition of Inherited metabolic diseases. Inherited metabolic diseases: Also called inborn errors of metabolism, these are heritable (genetic) disorders of biochemistry. Examples include albinism, cystinuria (a cause of kidney stones), phenylketonuria (PKU), and some forms of gout, sun sensitivity, and thyroid disease. 
Inherited metabolic disorders are genetic conditions that result in metabolism problems. Most people with inherited metabolic disorders have a defective gene that results in an enzyme deficiency. There are hundreds of different genetic metabolic disorders, and their symptoms, treatments, and prognoses vary widely. In most inherited metabolic disorders, a single enzyme is either not produced by the body at all or is produced in a form that doesn't work. The missing enzyme is like an absentee worker on the assembly line.
Inherited metabolic disorders are one cause of metabolic disorders, and occur when a defective gene causes an enzyme deficiency. These diseases, of which there are many subtypes, are known as inborn errors of metabolism. Metabolic diseases can also occur when the liver or pancreas do not function properly. 
Some inherited metabolic disorders are fatal in the first weeks or months of postnatal life, for example, severe defects in the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl coenzyme A (CoA), some urea cycle defects, and severe defects in the processing of fructose. 
In many cases, doctors will use a blood test to diagnose inherited metabolic disorders. Because these disorders are the result of a genetic mutation, doctors can examine the blood to see if a defect is present. In other cases, specific chemicals in the blood indicate a certain metabolic disorder. 