Your tendency is to scan the putt from the ball to the hole and back again, or vertically. That's a good way to determine if the putt is moving uphill or downhill, but it doesn't help you see how much side-to-side tilt you face. You'll glean more information by scanning the putt horizontally. 
On-Course Basics. How to mark your ball. When you are on the green, you should mark your golf ball with a small coin or ball marker. Place the mark just behind your ball before picking up the ball. When it is your turn to putt, place the ball on the green in its original location before picking up the mark. 
Instead of being a stiff mannequin, try to adopt an athletic stance by bending your knees slightly. Try a practice swing with your knees totally straight to see how hard it is — and how unnatural it feels — to swing a golf club without slightly bent knees. 1  Balance your weight on the balls of your feet. 2  Distribute your weight evenly on both your feet. 1 To check your alignment, get into your stance and place a golf club on the teeing area along the tips of your toes. 2  Step back from the golf club and look at the direction it's pointing in. 3  It should be pointed either at your target, or at the hole itself.
With a down economy, gaining access to premier private courses is more feasible than ever. Here are four ways to get behind the gates. No. 1: Take a lesson with the club's pro; an on-course playing lesson or even a full 18 holes might be the result. No. 2: Buy a spot in a Monday charity outing. If there's only time for a few quick swings on the range, hit your 8-iron, says golf-analytics expert Mark Broadie, the mind behind the PGA Tour's Strokes-Gained Putting stat. The 8-iron best bridges the gap between short irons and your longer clubs, even your driver.. 10.
As you progress, it is vital to work on your short game (putting and pitching). Think about it. It is useless being able to hit the ball 200 yards (182.9 m), depending how strong you are you should be able to drive the ball 250, and not have a clue what to do when you get to the green. Just like shoes, you need clubs that “fit.”. 3. Take some time to learn the rules of golf and the etiquette, as this is just as important as being able to hit the ball 300 yards (274.3 m). The game of golf is about honesty, honor and respect, not just hitting a ball around a grassy park. You can get a copy of the official rules at the USGA website
When do you know that you're ready for the golf course? The way we see it, the only dumb questions about getting started in golf are the ones you're afraid to ask, or worse, the ones for which you can't find an answer. The whole point of this guide is to make sure that last part is no longer a problem. -- Sam Weinman. Related: Tom Watson: Easy Does It. So many rules, so many different kinds of clubs. And then there's the lingo: birdies, bogeys, bump-and-runs. At Golf Digest, this may be the language we speak every day, but we also know it's a language that can scare prospective golfers off before they ever pick up a club.
Everything you need to know about taking up golf from the editors of Golf Digest. We get it. Golf can seem terribly complicated to the uninitiated. So many rules, so many different kinds of clubs. And then there's the lingo: birdies, bogeys, bump-and-runs. At Golf Digest, this may be the language we speak every day, but we also know it's a language that can scare prospective golfers off before they ever pick up a club. That's where this online beginner's guide comes in
Welcome to Everything Carts... Your golf cart accessory and parts place. Here you will find custom wheels, lift kits, chrome roll bars, stainless and much more. 
And it all starts with your swing. If you're slicing or hooking your ball, if you're just not getting the right yardage out of your shot, or if you've never hit a golf ball in your life, here's the skinny on how to get the best out of your golf swing. 1 To check your alignment, get into your stance and place a golf club on the teeing area along the tips of your toes. 2  Step back from the golf club and look at the direction it's pointing in. 3  It should be pointed either at your target, or at the hole itself.