Your plastic surgeon's experience and reputation make the greatest difference in the cost of rhinoplasty. Here in Manhattan, it is possible to undergo the procedure for as little as $3,000 when it is performed by surgeons-in-training, supervised by senior surgeons. However, if rhinoplasty is your surgeon's specialty, this can provide the best chances of achieving the results you desire. His or her fees will reflect that, and depending on where the practice is located, the total cost of surgery can be upwards of $15,000.
At the first evaluation, the doctor can estimate the cost and give you details about the fees that are tied to the procedure. The American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery reports that the average cost of a rhinoplasty in the USA was $4,314 for the year 2010. The sum does not include the fees for the anesthesiologist, the use of the facility, medical exams, medications and other requirements. Some factors that will affect the cost of your rhinoplasty are: 1  Time. 2  The more work a surgeon does on the nasal area, the longer the procedure will take and the more it will cost in terms of facility use and the surgeon's and other staff's time. 3  Technique. 4  The technique and medical gear used will affect the cost.
Hump and Tip: $6,800. Hump or Tip: $5,000. The average cost of Minneapolis-St. Paul rhinoplasty is $5,000. This includes your surgical fee and all follow-up visits with Dr. Rocheford. This estimate also includes the facility fee and anesthesia costs. This is an estimate and may be different depending on your specific situation. It does not include the cost of your pre-operative physical, lab tests or medications. Dr. Rocheford does charge $100 for consultations, and that fee is deducted from the price of your surgery or in-office procedure.
Secondary open rhinoplasty: $7,000 – $9,000. Secondary closed rhinoplasty: $2,643 – $10,000. Tummy Tucks *. Cost Range: $5,000-$9,000. Average Total Cost: $6,200. Surgeons fee: $5,000. Anesthesiologist: $500. Facility fee: $700. *Fees generally vary according to region of country and patient needs. 
Rhinoplasty can cost between $3,000 and $15,000 depending on your surgeon's reputation and level of expertise, the complexity of your surgery, the geographic location of your surgeon's practice, and many other factors. However, if rhinoplasty is your surgeon's specialty, this can provide the best chances of achieving the results you desire. His or her fees will reflect that, and depending on where the practice is located, the total cost of surgery can be upwards of $15,000.
Cost of Tummy Tuck: (Cost Varies) : $6,500. The average cost of tummy tuck in Minneapolis-St. Paul is $6,500. This includes your surgical fee and all follow-up visits with Dr. Rocheford. This estimate also includes the facility fee and anesthesia costs. This is an estimate and may be different depending on your specific situation. It does not include the cost of your pre-operative physical, lab tests or medications. Dr. Rocheford does charge $100 for consultations, and that fee is deducted from the price of your surgery or in-office procedure.
Anesthesiologist fees and related cost vary according to the complexity of rhinoplasty procedure and can range from five hundred ($500) to a thousand dollars ($1,000). The fee associated to the operating facility can also range from $500 to $1,000 dollars. Some factors that will affect the cost of your rhinoplasty are: 1  Time. 2  The more work a surgeon does on the nasal area, the longer the procedure will take and the more it will cost in terms of facility use and the surgeon's and other staff's time. 3  Technique. 4  The technique and medical gear used will affect the cost.
The average cost of rhinoplasty is $4,694, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Rhinoplasty surgery costs can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. When choosing a board-certified plastic surgeon in your area for a rhinoplasty procedure, remember that the surgeon’s experience and your comfort with him or her are just as important as the final cost of the surgery.
Average Cost. Fees for cosmetic plastic surgery generally are paid prior to surgery. Oftentimes the consultation fee is deducted from the procedure. Costs vary widely and depend on the complexity of the operation, where the surgery takes place and which anesthetic is administered.