The length of time it takes to earn your Instrument rating depends upon how often you fly. You can receive your Instrument rating in as little as 30 days if you fly everyday. Most students fly on average 2-3 times per week. At this pace you can receive your Instrument rating in as little as 90 days. Once you receive your Instrument Rating, you will be able to fly in weather with lower visibility. This means you can fly in known low visibility areas, like on the coast when there is a marine layer and over the mountains when it is cloudy.
An FAA pilot certificate never expires. However, you must be current on the following to continue to fly as pilot-in-command: * You must have made at least three takeoffs and landings within the last 90 days, see 14 CFR 61.57. * You must have had a flight review within the last 24 months, see 14 CFR 61.56. While the FAA sets minimum certification requirements for air carriers (commercial certificate with an instrument rating), each airline sets its own minimum experience requirements. For example, the FAA requires 250 total hours for a commercial pilot certificate. However, few, if any, airlines use that amount of flight time as their own minimum standard. They may require 1,000 or 2,000 hours or more
The length of time it takes to earn your Instrument Rating depends upon how often you fly. You can receive your Instrument rating in as little as 30 days if you fly everyday. Most students fly on average 2-3 times per week. At this pace you can receive your Instrument rating in as little as 90 days. 1  40 flight hours of actual or simulated IFR. 2  50 hours cross country PIC. 3  Up to 10 hours in our FAA approved simulator
1 40 hours of actual or simulated instrument time of which 15 hours must have been received from an authorized instructor who holds an instrument-airplane rating, and the instrument time includes: 2  3 hours of instrument flight training within 2 calendar months before the practical test. First, getting an instrument rating will make you a better pilot. You will gain a better understanding of many topics introduced in your private pilot training, such as aircraft equipment, navigation, weather, etc.
I took my instrument rating test at the end of 2004 in Orlando Florida on a Cirrus SR-22. This article describes the test and gives hard-won tips and advice for other people who are thinking of taking the FAA IR checkride. 1 If you don’t already have an FAA licence, you can take the tests for an FAA PPL or CPL (see my other article How to get an FAA CPL) or you can get an FAA licence on the back of your UK licence and add the IR to that.
The Instrument Rating Practical Test Standards (PTS) book is published by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to establish the standards for instrument rating certification practical tests for the airplane, helicopter, and powered lift, category and classes. These practical test standards shall also be used for the instrument portion of the Commercial Pilot—Airship practical test. FAA inspectors and designated pilot examiners shall conduct practical tests in compliance with these standards.
Then bad weather sets in, and without an instrument rating you can be grounded for days. This rating states that you are qualified to fly in less than V.F.R (visual flight rule) conditions (basically a license to fly in the clouds, fog, rain, etc. in instrument meteorological conditions (I.M.C). Under these conditions, an instrument rating may be an alternative to rerouting, rescheduling, or canceling a flight. Many accidents are the result of pilots who lack the necessary skills or equipment to fly in marginal visual meteorological conditions (VMC) or IMC and attempt flight without outside references.
Written Test & Checkride. The FAA written test and checkride are both done towards the end of your training. The written test is comprised of 60 questions with a passing grade of 70%. Those 60 questions are pulled from a bank of just over 950 questions, which you have access to through the Cessna Online Course. Once you receive your Instrument Rating, you will be able to fly in weather with lower visibility. This means you can fly in known low visibility areas, like on the coast when there is a marine layer and over the mountains when it is cloudy.