68. Made time s. 1. Recipe by: Patrick. This dry mix of herbs and spices adds a unique zing to any chicken dish, it has just the right amount of heat and flavor to make all your guests beg for more. Don't be scared by the long list, most of it is spices you will probably have in your cupboard. Directions. Prep. Ready In. 1  Mix the salt, basil, rosemary, garlic powder, mustard, paprika, black pepper, thyme, celery seed, parsley, cumin, cayenne pepper, and chicken bouillon together until blended.
1 Mix the salt, basil, rosemary, garlic powder, mustard, paprika, black pepper, thyme, celery seed, parsley, cumin, cayenne pepper, and chicken bouillon together until blended. Directions. Prep. Ready In. 1  Mix the salt, basil, rosemary, garlic powder, mustard, paprika, black pepper, thyme, celery seed, parsley, cumin, cayenne pepper, and chicken bouillon together until blended.
Another way to make tasty, tender chicken is to add it to a salt-and-sugar rub. For chicken breasts, blend 1/3 cup of course salt and 1/3 cup of brown sugar with a mixture of your favorite seasonings. A tablespoon each of ground black pepper, paprika and chili powder are good seasonings to spice up this mix. In a large resealable plastic bag, rub the entire mixture evenly over the chicken, seal up bag, and refrigerate for 4 to 8 hours. You may find it easier to use several bags in this instance. Adding particular ingredients to a marinade, brine, rub, saute, or sauce can really enhance chicken's flavor and give it an international flare. For Italian chicken recipes, use fresh minced garlic, dried oregano, dried basil, and dried thyme.
1 Dried herbs and spices: thyme, rosemary, oregano, marjoram, chili flakes, za'atar (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: dill, thyme, rosemary, oregano, marjoram. 3  Other: lemon, good extra-virgin olive oil, butter, pesto. Potatoes. 1  Dried herbs and spices: rosemary, thyme, garam masala (spice blend), herbes de provence (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: rosemary, thyme, parsley. 3  Other:
Fish. 1  Dried herbs and spices: coriander, chili flakes, jerk seasoning (spice blend), dukkah (spice blend), za'atar (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: chervil, tarragon, chives, dill, marjoram, cilantro. 3  Other: lemon, mustard, ginger, sherry, pesto, miso paste, soy sauce. Potatoes. 1  Dried herbs and spices: rosemary, thyme, garam masala (spice blend), herbes de provence (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: rosemary, thyme, parsley. 3  Other: good extra-virgin olive oil, butter, pesto.
Steamed or Roasted Vegetables. 1  Dried herbs and spices: thyme, rosemary, oregano, marjoram, chili flakes, za'atar (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: dill, thyme, rosemary, oregano, marjoram. 3  Other: lemon, good extra-virgin olive oil, butter, pesto. Potatoes. 1  Dried herbs and spices: rosemary, thyme, garam masala (spice blend), herbes de provence (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: rosemary, thyme, parsley. 3  Other:
1 In a medium bowl, stir together the flour, salt, celery salt, pepper, dry mustard, paprika, garlic powder, thyme, savory, ginger, basil and oregano. 2  Keep mixture in an airtight container. 3  To use: Steam chicken until tender, dip pieces in beaten egg then roll in the spice mixture. 4  Deep fry for 3 minutes on each side. Directions. Prep. Ready In. 1 
A certain well-known take-out chicken with eleven herbs and spices is not the only Southern fried chicken that is seasoned with a complex blend of herbs and spices; it is just one of many. You can experiment with the combination until you have your own unique blend. 
Pork. 1  Dried herbs and spices: sage, rosemary, thyme, chinese five-spice (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: sage, rosemary, thyme. 3  Other: mustard, garlic. Potatoes. 1  Dried herbs and spices: rosemary, thyme, garam masala (spice blend), herbes de provence (spice blend). 2  Fresh herbs: rosemary, thyme, parsley. 3  Other: good extra-virgin olive oil, butter, pesto.