Yes, drinking water may cause you to gain a pound, but you won't even notice, but you lose a lot of the water you drink through daily things like exercising and even breathing. Drinking water daily (about 24 oz a day) is good for your body. So, go ahead and drink plenty of it. 
Simply drinking enough water will not directly cause you to lose weight, but it will help keep your body's metabolism running efficiently. Also, there is no reason to worry that drinking a lot of water will cause you to gain extra weight. Your body will eliminate excess water unless you are ingesting too much salt. If you are retaining excess water, cut your sodium intake and sweat some of it out with exercise. Drinking an adequate amount of water each day keeps your metabolism working efficiently. If you drink too much during any given day, your body will eliminate it through urination. However, if you consume excess amounts of salt, your body will tend to retain excess water, a condition called edema.
Report Abuse. Well, water does have weight, and you can tell by holding up a full water bottle and an empty one. When you drink it you gain that weight, but your body disposes of a lot of the liquid later, through sweat and other bodily fluids. So the answer is yes, but only temporarily. 
Water does not cause weight gain in healthy people. Photo Credit Digital Vision./Photodisc/Getty Images. Drinking water should not make you gain weight, since it's calorie-free. However, certain health conditions can cause people to retain water, such as kidney disease, and drinking water may cause weight gain. If you think drinking water is causing you to gain weight, talk to your doctor. 
Drinking more water may help you lose weight, not gain it. You need water to help your body burn calories. When you’re dehydrated, the fat-burning process can slow. If you feel thirsty, that’s a sign you’re already dehydrated and need to start drinking more. If you’re not getting enough water, your weight may go up as your body tries to retain extra water in order to keep working properly. Eating a lot of salt or sodium-rich foods may cause your body to retain more water, and many women experience premenstrual water weight gain.
Report Abuse. It's actually the reverse. When you don't drink a lot of water, your body automatically retains water, which makes you gain weight. But if you drink a lot of water, your body learns that it does not need to retain water and lets it out. EaterOfCrayons · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 0. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.
Remember that the body weight can fluctuate a lot just from normal biorhythm changes. So 2 lbs could be anything. Drinking water shouldn't cause you to gain weight, but if you had a salt that can lead to water retention, which can result in weight change. But it's a temporary thing. But drinking plenty of water, while counter intuitive, can actually help with water retention because it helps flush the salt out of the system
Daily Weight Gain-By drinking more water per day, you will have a series of weight gains throughout the day as a quart (32 oz) of water weighs two pounds. So, as I write this article and sip from my 32 oz glass, I will gain two lbs in the next 90 minutes. Adding more water to your diet will help you lose weight a few ways. ONE-hunger suppressant-you will not be as hungry when drinking water through the day as your stomach will constantly have something flowing through it.
Water weight can bounce all over the place. Just shifting the carb level in my diet can make me lose or gain 8 lbs. if you tend to not drink water your body actually may try to retain it. Note hat the amount of water your body retains also changed with your monthly hormonal cycle-by quite a bit more than 2 lbs. 