Join TITLE Boxing Club to lose weight and feel great. Gym memberships are customized to fit your needs and vary in length and style. You can choose from personal memberships and family memberships. Find a Club near you to design the perfect TITLE Boxing Club gym membership and start losing weight today.
1 According to Houston Chronicle, club memberships at the Title Boxing Club costs $60 to $140 a month, including family, single-club or all-club access memberships. 2  If you are not sure whether or not you want to join, Title Boxing Club will let you try one class free of charge.
Today's side deal gets you one month of membership, an introductory boxing kit, and half off future enrollment (normally $100) at TITLE Boxing Club for $40 (a $200 total value if you keep the membership going, $150 if you don't).
TITLE Boxing Club Membership. Join TITLE Boxing Club to lose weight and feel great. Gym memberships are customized to fit your needs and vary in length and style. You can choose from personal memberships and family memberships.
1 According to an article at online publication St. Louis Magazine, the cost of a membership at the Title Boxing Gym is $64 (first and last month upfront). 2  According to Houston Chronicle, club memberships at the Title Boxing Club costs $60 to $140 a month, including family, single-club or all-club access memberships.
Membership Fees. Title Boxing Club fees vary; it depends on the location of the club and the membership plan that you choose. Generally, a no-contract membership at a Title Boxing Club location costs around $79 a month, and a $149 in enrolment fee. If you choose the plan that allows a member to attend workout session at any location within the country, it will cost you $59 per month, plus $99 fee for twelve months.
Join TITLE Boxing Club to lose weight and feel great. Gym memberships are customized to fit your needs and vary in length and style. You can choose from personal memberships and family memberships. Find a Club near you to design the perfect TITLE Boxing Club gym membership and start losing weight today.
1 An article at DenverPost.com states that the no-contract membership at a Title Boxing location costs $79 a month plus a $149 enrollment fee. 2  The option that allows members to work out at any Title Club location in the country costs $59 a month ($99 enrollment) for 12 months or $69 for 6 months ($49 enrollment).