Traditional 401(k)s and IRAs give you a tax break while you're saving for retirement, but income tax is due on each withdrawal from the account. With a Roth IRA, you contribute after-tax dollars, but withdrawals from these accounts, including the earnings, are often tax-free. To decide which type of retirement account is best for you, you need to compare your current tax rate to what you think your tax rate will be in retirement. 
The IRS severely limits the ability to contribute to a Roth IRA for individuals that are married but file separately. If you do not have income you will not be allowed to contribute to a Roth IRA. If your income is less than $10,000 you cannot contribute up to the limit. Your contribution is reduced. Use the IRS worksheet to calculate your new reduced Roth IRA contribution limit. Click here to see current Roth IRA contribution limits. The Internal Revenue Service has a set of rules that individuals must meet to be qualified to invest in a Roth IRA. One set of rules pertains to income limits. If your income exceeds a certain amount
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. The same combined contribution limit applies to all of your Roth and traditional IRAs
Contribution limits for a Roth IRA phase out between $181,000 and $191,000, and at incomes of $191,000 or more, you cannot contribute at all. So, if you are considered a high-income taxpayer, the Roth IRA is not an option for you. You only pay taxes once you start to take distributions — in retirement. With a Roth IRA, you get no tax break in the year of the contribution, but you are able to remove the funds tax-free in retirement. In 2014, you can contribute $5,500 to either type of IRA and $6,500 if you are age 50 or older. Let me be clear: If you have income from a job or from a small business, you should have an IRA or a Roth IRA — or perhaps both, depending on your situation. There are no exceptions to that statement. None
15 Months to Contribute. One quirk in the IRA laws is that you have 15 months to make a contribution for the current tax year. In 2015, for instance, you can make a contribution any time from January 1, 2015 to April 15, 2016 (the tax filing deadline). Assuming your IRA was opened by Dec. 31, 2015, you have until the tax filing deadline–April 15, 2016–to make a 2015 contribution. The income/contribution limits may increase for the 2016 tax year. Click here for current contribution limits. When it comes to a Roth IRA, “rules” is a subjective term.
In contrast to a traditional IRA, contributions to a Roth IRA are not tax-deductible. Withdrawals are generally tax-free, but not always and not without certain stipulations (i.e., tax-free for principal withdrawals and the owner's age must be at least 59½ for tax-free withdrawals on the growth portion above principal). 1 Direct contributions to a Roth IRA (principal) may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free at any time. 2  Earnings may be withdrawn tax and penalty-free after 5 years if the condition of age 59½ (or other qualifying condition) is also met.
Much like the Roth IRA, the Roth 401(k) is funded upfront with after-tax dollars. Once you hit age 59.5 you are able to start withdrawing from the account tax-free. The edge the Roth 401(k) has over its IRA cousin is that the 401(k) contribution limits still apply to the 401(k) version. Meaning that you can contribute a full $17,000 per year to the Roth 401(k) while you are limited to just $5000 in the Roth IRA. So the Roth 401(k) is great just like the Roth IRA except that we’re able to contribute A LOT more money to it each year. If you decide to contribute to a Roth instead of a your Traditional 401(k) you can expect your tax bill to go up in April because you’ll be contributing after tax dollars instead of pre-tax as you had been. If you have a Roth 401(k) available to you definitely take the time to consider your options.
The amount you can contribute to a Roth IRA: 1  Can't exceed the amount of income you earned that year. 2  Can't exceed the IRS-imposed limits (see below). 3  Could be reduced—or even eliminated—based on your modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) . 
2015 Roth IRA Rules-Eligibility, Income, Contribution Limits, and More. Note: The article below refers to the 2015 tax year. Assuming your IRA was opened by Dec. 31, 2015, you have until the tax filing deadline–April 15, 2016–to make a 2015 contribution. The income/contribution limits may increase for the 2016 tax year. Click here for current contribution limits. When it comes to a Roth IRA, “rules” is a subjective term.