Still it would be nice to know which machine you should go to. Knowing the slot machines that pay the most can mean the difference between a half hour of fun and a half day of raking in coins. Now the unfortunate answer you'll find all too often is that the best paying slots are the ones the other guy's playing. Slots You Should Play. If you're in a heavy gambling area such as Las Vegas and you want to spend a lot of time playing slot machines, then maybe try out a smaller casino. Some slot machines pay the most at places that need to attract business away from the bigger guys.
FINDING THE BEST SLOT MACHINE. Everyone who has ever played slots for at least five minutes seems to feel that they are qualified to find the best slot machine. Best usually means the loosest slot, meaning that the machine seems to pay out more coins than have been played, at least for a time period. There are as many theories as there are people on how to find this elusive machine. Some people believe strictly in luck. 
These types of slots have a jackpot total that grows each time the machines are played. All their machines are linked up to each other's and the first person to hit the jackpot gets a percentage of all the play, not just their own. 1  Just like on the buy-a-pays, you wanna bet the max on this type of game, too. There's just a few things you should know how to work: 1  You can pay with a previous payout ticket, your member card, or cash. 2  Most machines no longer spit out coins. 3  For certain variations of games, the methodology is spelled out on the glass above the screen. 4  Locate the Cash Out button.
This is the first thing you should look for. There are several types of machines that you need to be aware of: Multiplier: This machine has a pay out for a certain symbol and the number of coins played multiplies it. Each coin activates a particular line. If you hit a winner on a line that is not activated, you will not receive anything. The older machines used to have three lines but the newer video slots can have up to nine lines. Buy-a-Pay: These are the most misunderstood machines in the casino.
4. Ignore advice about a slot machine's location on the casino floor. Contrary to popular belief, the tight machines are not located near the table games, and the loose slot machines aren't on the end of each row. 
This payout percentage covers the lifespan of a slot machine so if a slot machine has a payout rate of 82-98% and the slot has an expected lifespan of 10 years, over the 10 years it will payout in winnings 82-98% of all the wagers that players have pumped in to it. While it is obvious that a higher paying slot will pay out more than a slot with a lower payout percentage the issue of whether you win is still entirely a matter of chance. As the payouts are controlled by a random number generator the best way to play slots is to have fun while keeping to your budget.
If you want to play slot machines you need to understand payout rates also known as the slot machine payout percentage. The payout rate or payout percentage is an estimate of what you can expect from a slot machine in term of payout. For example slot machines are usually programmed to make payouts in the form of winnings of 82-98% of all the wagers that are paid in to the slot machines by players. While it is obvious that a higher paying slot will pay out more than a slot with a lower payout percentage the issue of whether you win is still entirely a matter of chance. As the payouts are controlled by a random number generator the best way to play slots is to have fun while keeping to your budget.
Most slot machines usually offer an incentive to play the maximum coins. For example two coins may pay 2,000 on the jackpot but three coins will pay 5,000. So if there an economy of scale incentive, then the return is higher with a max-coin bet. 
If you are going to play a slot machine it is always a good idea to read the paytable. The paytable will list all the possible payouts in a slots game and will show the payout for each combination of symbols for the number of coins that you bet. 
Which are the best slots to play and is it better to play three coins all the time or rotate from 2-3 coins. Gary from Geulph, Canada. Most slot machines usually offer an incentive to play the maximum coins. For example two coins may pay 2,000 on the jackpot but three coins will pay 5,000. So if there an economy of scale incentive, then the return is higher with a max-coin bet. So, you may be better off betting one coin on a $1 machine than four coins on a quarter machine. My advice on slot selection is to play a simple smaller game. Nothing with fancy signage or a huge screen. Ultimately, it is the players that pay for that in the form of a lower return.