The primates are a group of mammals that includes some of the most intelligent animals. The major kinds of primates are humans, apes, monkeys, tarsiers, lemurs, and lorises. There are more than 300 species, or types, of primate. These different types have many physical features in common. For this reason scientists believe that they may share a common ancestor.
noun. 1  any placental mammal of the order Primates, typically having flexible hands and feet with opposable first digits, good eyesight, and, in the higher apes, a highly developed brain: includes lemurs, lorises, monkeys, apes, and man. Translations for 'primate'. 1  British English: primate A primate is a member of the group of mammals which includes humans, monkeys, and apes. 2  NOUNThis monkey is the largest primate in the region. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: primata.
1 any placental mammal of the order Primates, typically having flexible hands and feet with opposable first digits, good eyesight, and, in the higher apes, a highly developed brain: includes lemurs, lorises, monkeys, apes, and man. Translations for 'primate'. 1  British English: primate A primate is a member of the group of mammals which includes humans, monkeys, and apes. 2  NOUNThis monkey is the largest primate in the region. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: primata.
Definition of PRIMATE for Kids. : any of a group of mammals that includes humans together with the apes and monkeys and a few related forms. 
A primate (/ˈpraɪmeɪt/ PRY-mayt) is a mammal of the order Primates (/praɪˈmeɪtiːz/ pry-MAY-teez; Latin : prime, first rank). In taxonomy, primates include two distinct lineages, strepsirrhines and haplorhines. Considered generalist mammals, primates exhibit a wide range of characteristics. Some primates (including some great apes and baboons) are primarily terrestrial rather than arboreal, but all species possess adaptations for climbing trees.
Definition. Primates is the name of the order of mammals to which we happen to belong. The name means 'first' or 'most important' and was given to the order by Carolus Linnaeus. While naming it that way was a matter of human ego, we can't help but feel a certain fascination with the group to which we belong. The most primitive living primates are called prosimians. They are primitive in the sense that they retain characteristics of the very first primates from millions of years ago. Prosimians include lemurs, lorises, galagos and tarsiers.
Primates are characterized by large brains relative to other mammals, as well as an increased reliance on stereoscopic vision at the expense of smell, the dominant sensory system in most mammals. These features are more developed in monkeys and apes and noticeably less so in lorises and lemurs. Considered generalist mammals, primates exhibit a wide range of characteristics. Some primates (including some great apes and baboons) are primarily terrestrial rather than arboreal, but all species possess adaptations for climbing trees.
pri·mate. n. 1. (prī′māt′) Any of various mammals of the order Primates, which consists of the lemurs, lorises, tarsiers, New World monkeys, Old World monkeys, and apes including humans, and is characterized by nails on the hands and feet, a short snout, and a large brain. 2. A bishop of highest rank in a province or country
Building on the Mammal Pattern. One of the important things to know as we ask “what makes a primate a primate” is that the primate characteristics we see are all built on mammal characteristics. All primates are mammals. 