Forex Brokers. Forex broker is an intermediary between a trader and the currency market. Retail foreign exchange trading is not possible without Forex brokerage. Finding the best Forex broker among hundreds of the online companies is not an easy task. That is why EarnForex offers a full set of tools that allow finding, comparing and researching almost all of the available FX firms.
DEFINITION of 'Forex Broker'. Firms that provide currency traders with access to a trading platform that allows them to buy and sell foreign currencies. A currency trading broker, also known as a retail forex broker, or forex broker, handles a very small portion of the volume of the overall foreign exchange market. Currency traders use these brokers to access the 24-hour currency market. Forex brokers are usually compensated through the bid-ask spread of a currency pair. For example, a retail forex broker may buy euros for 1.5475 U.S. dollars and, at the same time, sell euros for 1.5478 U.S. dollars.
Forex Broker is a Forex broker that focuses on increasing its traders’ profits through a variety of bonus plans and trading tournaments. The website is easy to use and appealing and it offers some of the best and most highly-regarded trading platforms in the industry. Forex Broker is one of the few brokers in the industry to welcome USA traders and has taken upon themselves the strict scrutiny of U.S. regulators. This offers traders a greater degree of comfort and trust in the company.
The need to exchange currencies is the primary reason why the forex market is the largest, most liquid financial market in the world. It dwarfs other markets in size, even the stock market, with an average traded value of around U.S. $2,000 billion per day. The foreign exchange market is the place where currencies are traded. Currencies are important to most people around the world, whether they realize it or not, because currencies need to be exchanged in order to conduct foreign trade and business. If you are living in the. and want to buy cheese from.
Advanced search. This is a full list of retail Forex broker companies that offer online currency trading services. Click on the broker's name to get more details about it and read traders' reviews. Retail foreign exchange trading is not possible without Forex brokerage. Finding the best Forex broker among hundreds of the online companies is not an easy task. That is why EarnForex offers a full set of tools that allow finding, comparing and researching almost all of the available FX firms.
Forex is a commonly used abbreviation for foreign exchange, and it is typically used to describe trading in the foreign exchange market by investors and speculators. 
There is no central exchange as it trades over the counter. Forex trading allows you to buy and sell currencies, similar to stock trading except you can do it 24 hours a day, five days a week, you have access to margin trading, and you gain exposure to international markets. FXCM is a leading forex brokerage.
Currency Pairs offered: Most Forex brokers offer trading in the major currency pairs such as USD/EUR or JPY/USD. Other brokers add on what is considered exotic pairs which are currencies from smaller or developing countries. Still others offer trading in bitcoins, a cryptocurrency. Top Rated Forex Brokers - 2015. With hundreds of Forex brokers to choose from, selecting the right one can be both challenging and time consuming. To ease the process, we’ve tested and reviewed dozens of the top brokers, and compiled our findings into thorough Forex brokers reviews.