(November 2012). A Management Information System (MIS) focuses on the management of information systems to provide efficiency and effectiveness of strategic decision making. The concept may include systems termed transaction processing system, decision support systems, expert systems, and executive information systems. The term MIS is often used in the business schools. Some of MIS contents are overlapping with other areas such as information system, information technology, informatics, e-commerce and computer science. Therefore, the MIS term sometimes can be inter-changeable used in above areas. Management Information Systems (plural) as an academic discipline studies people, technology, organizations, and the relationships among them. This definition relates specifically to MIS as a course of study in business school
MIS is short for management information system or management information services. Management information system, or MIS, broadly refers to a computer-based system that provides managers with the tools to organize, evaluate and efficiently manage departments within an organization. The role of the management information system (MIS) manager is to focus on the organization's information and technology systems. The MIS manager typically analyzes business problems and then designs and maintains computer applications to solve the organization's problems.
General Purpose vs. Specialized Information Systems. There are some general types of information systems. For example, a database management system (DBMS) is a combination of software and data that makes it possible to organize and analyze data. DBMS software is typically not designed to work with a specific organization or a specific type of analysis. Rather, it is a general-purpose information system. 
Related Terms: Automation. A management information system (MIS) is a computerized database of financial information organized and programmed in such a way that it produces regular reports on operations for every level of management in a company. It is usually also possible to obtain special reports from the system easily. 
Not a piece of hardware or software, but an infrastructure that supplies to a firm's executives the up-to-the-minute operational data, gathered and sifted from various databases. 
CA Gen. IMS (Information Management System) is a database and transaction management system that was first introduced by IBM in 1968. Since then, IMS has gone through many changes in adapting to new programming tools and environments. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An executive information system (EIS), also known as an executive support system (ESS) , is a type of management information system that facilitates and supports senior executive information and decision-making needs. It provides easy access to internal and external information relevant to organizational goals. It is commonly considered a specialized form of decision support system (DSS). EIS emphasizes graphical displays and easy-to-use user interfaces.