On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click Format. Do one of the following: Under Visibility, point to Hide & Unhide, and then click Unhide Rows or Unhide Columns. Under Cell Size, click Row Height or Column Width, and then type the value that you want in the Row Height or Column Width box. To select the first hidden row or column on the worksheet, do one of the following: In the Name Box next to the formula bar, type A1. On the Home tab, in the Editing group, click Find & Select, and then click Go To. In the Reference box, type A1, and then click OK.
To display the first hidden row or column on a worksheet, select it by typing A1 in the Name Box next to the formula bar. Tip You can also select it by using the Go To dialog box. On the Home tab, under Editing, click Find & Select, and then click Go To. In the Reference box, type A1, and then click OK. To select the first hidden row or column on the worksheet, do one of the following: In the Name Box next to the formula bar, type A1. On the Home tab, in the Editing group
NOTE: Cells in hidden rows and columns can still be included in calculations in other visible cells as well as perform calculations themselves. To hide one or more rows, select the row(s) to be hidden. Right-click on one of the row headers selected and select Hide from the popup menu. The selected rows are hidden, including the row headings. Notice that rows three and four in the following image are hidden as well. The hidden rows display again and are highlighted along with the surrounding rows. You can also easily hide one or more columns. Select the column(s) you want to hide, right-click on one of the column headers,
On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click Format. Do one of the following: Under Visibility, point to Hide & Unhide, and then click Hide Rows or Hide Columns. Under Cell Size, click Row Height or Column Width, and then type 0 in the Row Height or Column Width box. To select the first hidden row or column on the worksheet, do one of the following: In the Name Box next to the formula bar, type A1. On the Home tab, in the Editing group, click Find & Select, and then click Go To. In the Reference box, type A1, and then click OK.
Under Visibility, point to Hide & Unhide, and then click Hide Rows or Hide Columns. Under Cell Size, click Row Height or Column Width, and then type 0 in the Row Height or Column Width box. Tip You can also right-click a row or column (or a selection of multiple rows or columns), and then click Hide.
To unhide a row, you must first select the rows both above and below the hidden row(s). Then, right-click on the selected row headers and select Unhide from the popup menu. The hidden rows display again and are highlighted along with the surrounding rows. You can also easily hide one or more columns. Select the column(s) you want to hide, right-click on one of the column headers, and select Hide from the popup menu. The selected columns are hidden along with the column headers and a thicker line displays where the columns were
Select the column or row headings you want to hide. Press the Ctrl key while selecting multiple rows or columns. If you want to unhide rows or columns, select the rows or columns both before and after the hidden rows or columns. 
The hidden row numbers are skipped in the row number column and a double line displays in place of the hidden rows. Hiding columns is a very similar process to hiding rows. Right-click on the column you want to hide, or select multiple column letters first and then right-click on the selected columns. Select “Hide” from the popup menu.
You can hide entire rows and columns in Excel, which I explain below, but you can only blank out individual cells. Right-click on a cell or multiple selected cells and then click on Format Cells. On the Number tab, choose Custom at the bottom and enter three semicolons (;;;) without the parentheses into the Type box. If you want to hide an entire row or column, right-click on the row or column header and then choose Hide. To hide a row or multiple rows, you need to right-click on the row number at the far left. To hide a column or multiple columns, you need to right-click on the column letter at the very top. You can easily tell there are hidden rows and columns in Excel because the numbers or letters skip and there are two visible lines shown to indicate hidden columns or rows. To unhide a row or column, you need to select the row/column before and the row/column after the hidden row/column