Wombles were created by author Elizabeth Beresford, and originally appeared in a series of children's novels from 1968. Although Wombles supposedly live in every country in the world, Beresford's stories are concerned with the lives of the inhabitants of the burrow on Wimbledon Common in London, England. This is the list of young wombles: 1  Orinoco-a shirker who loved sleep and food, styled on Beresford's teenage son and named after the River Orinoco in South America. 2  Bungo-over-enthusiastic and bossy, named after Bungo Province in Japan.
The Wombles was a television documentary in 1970 directed by British underground reporter Elisabeth Beresford. The Wombles were radioactively deformed migrant workers, the result of catastrophic accidents in secret diamond mines under London, England. 
Elisabeth Beresford was inspired to create the Wombles by her daughter's mispronunciation during a Boxing Day romp across Wimbledon Common. The idea blossomed and the children's books and highly successful television series went on to conquer the world, being translated into over 40 languages. The Wombles' names came from sources as different as the town where Beresford's daughter went on a French exchange and the name of the college attended by a nephew. The first Wombles book was published in 1968, and the stories made their television debut the same year, broadcast on BBC1's Jackanory series.
Although Wombles supposedly live in every country in the world, Beresford's stories are concerned with the lives of the inhabitants of the burrow on Wimbledon Common in London, England. When the 1973 animated Wombles series was in pre-production, a decision was made to change the design of the characters so that they did not resemble teddy bears, as it was felt that there were too many children's shows with teddy bear characters.
The Wombles of Wimbledon all choose their own names out of Great Uncle Bulgaria’s atlas. Some of them spend a long time looking for a name that suits them, while others just close their eyes and point, and hope for the best! The seven best-known Wombles appear throughout most of the books and TV programmes: 1  Great Uncle Bulgaria (old and wise – his full name is Bulgaria Coburg Womble). 2  Tobermory (handyman). 3  Madame Cholet (chef). 4  Orinoco (lazy and greedy). 5  Wellington (clever and shy). 6  Tomsk (sporty and strong). 7  Bungo (bossy and excitable).
Wombles are extremely long-lived. For example, in The Wombles Great Uncle Bulgaria recalls being a young Womble at the time of Queen Victoria's coronation in 1837 suggesting that he is somewhat-but not very much-older than 140. When the 1973 animated Wombles series was in pre-production, a decision was made to change the design of the characters so that they did not resemble teddy bears, as it was felt that there were too many children's shows with teddy bear characters.
The Wombles (the band). The Wombles were created by author Elisabeth Beresford, originally appearing in a series of children's novels from 1968. The characters later became nationally famous in the mid 1970s as a result of a popular BBC children's television show using stop-motion animation. 1 Great Uncle Bulgaria-the Wombles' leader, was based on Beresford's father-in-law. 2  Tobermory-an engineer, was based on Beresford's brother, a skilled inventor, and named after the capital of the Isle of Mull. 3  Orinoco-a shirker who loved sleep and food, was styled on Beresford's teenage son.
The appearance of the Wombles in the books followed the design of the Ivor Wood TV puppets, with the exception of original editions of The Wombles (1968) and first printings of The Wandering Wombles which preceded the TV series and depicted the Wombles as teddy bear-like creatures. When the 1973 animated Wombles series was in pre-production, a decision was made to change the design of the characters so that they did not resemble teddy bears, as it was felt that there were too many children's shows with teddy bear characters.