Possible causes of mitral valve regurgitation include: 1  Mitral valve prolapse. 2  In this condition, the leaflets and tendon-like cords supporting the mitral valve weaken and stretch so that with each contraction of the left ventricle, the valve leaflets bulge (prolapse) into the left atrium.
Causes. Mitral regurgitation may be caused by: 1  Mitral valve prolapse—Abnormal closure of the valve with protrusion of a leaflet tip backward into the left atrium, causing it to leak. 2  Infections that cause scarring of the heart valve, such as rheumatic fever or bacterial endocarditis. 3  Damage from a heart attack.
Mitral regurgitation is the most common type of heart valve disorder. Blood that flows between different chambers of your heart must flow through a valve. The valve between the two chambers on the left side of your heart is called the mitral valve.
Mitral valve regurgitation, also known as mitral valve insufficiency or mitral valve incompetence, is the most common form of heart valve disease. An estimated 4 million people in the U.S. have significant mitral valve regurgitation.
In mitral regurgitation the valve does not close properly. This causes blood to leak back (regurgitate) into the left atrium when the left ventricle contracts. Basically, the more open the valve remains, the more blood regurgitates, the more severe the problem.
Acute mitral valve regurgitation. Acute mitral valve regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve or one of its supporting structures ruptures suddenly, creating an immediate overload of blood volume and pressure in the left side of the heart.
Mitral valve regurgitation symptoms. When mitral regurgitation is severe, the blood backs up into the lungs. This leads to congestive heart failure, which causes fatigue, fluid retention and shortness of breath. Additionally, the leakiness of the valve burdens the heart and causes it to work harder.
Mitral regurgitation is where blood leaks back through the mitral valve in the heart as the valve does not close properly. This increases the pressure in the left atrium and in the blood vessels coming from the lungs. This may lead to various problems and symptoms, depending on the severity of the leak.
Mitral valve regurgitation means that one of the valves in your heart-the mitral valve-is letting blood leak backward into the heart. Heart valves work like one-way gates, helping blood flow in one direction between heart chambers or in and out of the heart. The mitral valve is on the left side of your heart.