Mount Garibaldi is a potentially active stratovolcano in the Sea to Sky Country of British Columbia, 80 km (50 mi) north of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. To Squamish people, the local indigenous people of this territory, the mountain is called Nch'kay. In their language it means Dirty Place or Grimy One. This name of the mountain refers to the muddy water in the Cheekye River.
Set around an extinct volcano at Vancouver’s highest point, this spectacular space is a haven of nature in an urban setting. Visit this park and you’ll quickly understand why it is one of Vancouver’s most popular attractions. It has spectacular gardens and views, and a range of cultural and natural experiences to enjoy. At the Bloedel Conservatory, experience a tropical garden enclosed within a huge dome.
Mt. Baker has been releasing steam, as recently as 2001, from Sherman Crater and is considered to be active. The last dated eruption of Mt. Baker was in 1870 and has been cooling off. In recent years, scientists have been looking very closely at the geology and past history of activity of Mt. Baker. The level of Baker Lake was lowered and people were restricted from the area due to concerns that an eruption-induced debrisavalanche or debris flow might enter Baker Lake and displace enough water toeither cause a wave to overtop the Upper Baker Dam or cause complete failure ofthe dam.
A volcano is an opening in the Earth’s crust from which magma (hot molten rock), ash and gases escape. Volcanic eruptions are driven, in part, by pressure from dissolved gas, much as escaping gases force the cork out of a bottle of champagne. When magma erupts, it is called lava. The type of volcano that forms depends on whether the lava is viscous (thick and sticky) or runny, and on how much gas it contains. If lava is runny, gases escape easily. A runny lava with lots of gas forms fire-fountains that spew into the air and break into globs that solidify as they fall to the ground
Volcanology of Canada includes lava flows, lava plateaus, lava domes, cinder cones, stratovolcanoes, shield volcanoes, submarine volcanoes, calderas, diatremes, and maars, along with examples of more less common volcanic forms such as tuyas and subglacial mounds. The Yukon portion of the northwest trending Northern Cordilleran Volcanic Province includes the youngest volcanoes in Northern Canada. The Fort Selkirk Volcanic Field in central Yukon consists of valley-filling basalt lava flows and cinder cones.
Stratovolcanoes like Mount Garibaldi, north of Vancouver, B.C. and Mount St. Helens in Washington State alternate explosive and dome-building eruptions, and may remain dormant for thousands of years. Volcanic eruptions are driven, in part, by pressure from dissolved gas, much as escaping gases force the cork out of a bottle of champagne. When magma erupts, it is called lava. The type of volcano that forms depends on whether the lava is viscous (thick and sticky) or runny, and on how much gas it contains.
Vancouver is served by Vancouver International Airport (YVR), located on Sea Island in the City of Richmond, immediately south of Vancouver. Vancouver's airport is Canada's second-busiest airport, and the second-largest gateway on the west coast of North America for international passengers. Vancouver is one of the most ethnically and linguistically diverse cities in Canada; 52% of its residents have a first language other than English. Vancouver is classed as a Beta global city.
The country's different volcano and lava types originate from different tectonic settings and types of volcanic eruptions, ranging from passive lava eruptions to violent explosive eruptions. Canada has a rich record of very large volumes of magmatic rock called large igneous provinces. The Yukon portion of the northwest trending Northern Cordilleran Volcanic Province includes the youngest volcanoes in Northern Canada. The Fort Selkirk Volcanic Field in central Yukon consists of valley-filling basalt lava flows and cinder cones.
Vancouver (/vaeŋˈkuːvər/ væŋˈkuːvər /or/) vaenˈkuːvər vænˈkuːvər Officially the City, of vancouver is a coastal seaport city on the Mainland Of, British. Columbia canada the 2011 603,502 recorded 603502 people in, the city making it the Eighth largest. canadian municipality Vancouver is one of the most ethnically and linguistically diverse cities in Canada; 52% of its residents have a first language other than English. Vancouver is classed as a Beta global city.
This one day course/field trip is for individuals: a) interested in earthquakes, volcanoes, glaciers or tsunamis. b) interested in the natural and cultural history and development of Vancouver Island and the West Coast. The tour is centered in and around Victoria, British Columbia. Participants will see some of the world class sightseeing in the area as well as learn how Vancouver Island and area was created and molded. From secluded sand beaches to Victorian era attractions, the natural and human history of the area will be explored.