Exception to Five-Year Rule for People Married to a U.S. Citizen. You need to wait a mere three years to apply for U.S. citizenship if, during that time, you have been a permanent (or conditional) resident married to, as well as living with, a U.S. citizen. (See the Immigration and Nationality Act at I.N.A. So, for example, you could have gotten a green card through your employer, then married a U.S. citizen soon after, and you still need wait only three years from the date of your marriage to apply for citizenship.
Get a Green Card. A Green Card holder (permanent resident) is someone who has been granted authorization to live and work in the United States on a permanent basis. As proof of that status, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) grants a person a permanent resident card, commonly called a Green Card.. You can become a permanent resident several different ways. Most individuals are sponsored by a family member or employer in the United States. 
You have apply naturalization to becomes US Citizen. The first day you can apply is 4 years and 9 months, from your green card approval date. 2 years and 9 months if you obtained green card through marriage to US Citizen and still married to the same person. http://www.uscis.gov/portal/site/uscis/m... http://www.uscis.gov/files/article/M-476... Best Answer: You can apply for US citizen after 4 years 9 months if you receive your Green Card thru an employer. If you receive your GC thru marriage you can apply after 3 years. The citizenship process takes about 8 months
Being a permanent resident is the primary eligibility requirement while applying for citizenship, the highest immigration status in the U.S. Among the Green Card eligibles, only a few can run for citizenship. These few need to meet the following requirements: The applicant has to be. 1  18 years or older. 2  should be a permanent resident for five years to be eligible to file for citizenship. 3  If married to a U.S. citizen, then it is three years of permanent residency. The applicant has to be. 1  18 years or older. 2  should be a permanent resident for five years to be eligible to file for citizenship. 3  residing in the U.S. for a continuous period before applying.
If you are a green card holder who is married to a U.S. citizen and are interested in applying for naturalization, you must meet the following requirements: You must be a green card holder for at least 3 years. You must be 18 years of age or older. You must be a green card holder for at least 5 years. You must be 18 years of age or older. Live in the same place for at least 3 months prior to the date of application. Have been physically in the U.S. for at least 30 months of the 5 years.
If you are a U.S. permanent or conditional resident -- that is, someone with a green card -- the basic rule is that you cannot apply for U.S. citizenship (or apply to naturalize) until you have lived in the United States as a lawful permanent resident for at least five years. So, for example, you could have gotten a green card through your employer, then married a U.S. citizen soon after, and you still need wait only three years from the date of your marriage to apply for citizenship.
Ways to Get a Green Card. 1  Through your family member – a U.S. citizen or a Green Card holder can sponsor you for permanent residence. 2  Through the DV (Diversity Visa) lottery program that is held every year. 3  Through employment – in this category, a qualified U.S. employer has to sponsor you. The applicant has to be. 1  18 years or older. 2  should be a permanent resident for five years to be eligible to file for citizenship. 3  residing in the U.S. for a continuous period before applying.
And there's another benefit to being married to a U.S. citizen: Three years from the date you become a permanent resident, you can apply for U.S. citizenship, so long as you remain married to, and living with the citizen. Most green card holders have to wait five years before applying for citizenship. You will hopefully make the choice of whether to marry a U.S. permanent resident (green card holder) or a U.S. citizen based on personal, not immigration considerations. You will be eligible for an immigrant visa (green card) in both cases