Trainee Visa Requirements. A current full-time degree level student outside of the US or have graduated within the last 12 months. You should be at least halfway through your degree programme before beginning your internship. Have a degree and 1 years work experience in the field you are wishing to train in. You will be working under a J-1 Intern Visa, which gives interns and trainees the opportunity to gain international experience in the U.S, which will help advance your career back home. You must fulfill the following requirements in order to be able to apply for your all-important ticket to the States: 1  Be aged 18-38.
Intern Program. Internship programs are designed to allow foreign college and university students or recent graduates to come to the United States to gain exposure to U.S. culture and to receive hands-on experience in U.S. business practices in their chosen occupational field. 1  Skip to main navigation. 1 Who are currently enrolled in and pursuing studies at a foreign degree-or certificate-granting post-secondary academic institution outside the United States; or. 2  Who have graduated from such an institution no more than 12 months prior to their exchange visitor program start date.
Please note that International Internships will assist US applicants with the visa process, including detailed instructions. Again, because the visa requirements vary on nationality and location of internship, we are unable to assist everyone due to the numerous regulations. Australia. The following are details on the visas for US citizens, those coming to the US to intern and select other nationalities (as listed where we can). If your nationality is not listed for your deisred location, you will need to contact the consulate of that location to determine the type of visa you will need.
Eligibility. To be eligible for Sponsorship on the J-1 Trainee/ Intern Visa, applicants must: 1  Have secured a training or internship with a company in the USA. * 2  The company must be willing to offer training or internship in one of the following fields: 3  Information. 4  Media. 5  Communications. Applicants should be aware that the J-1 Visa Program for Trainees and Interns is intended solely as a means of participating in a training or intern program. Using the J-1 Visa Program for Trainees and Interns to fill the position of a regular employee is strictly prohibited by U.S. Department of State regulations.
About the Tier 5 Visa. In order to take part in an internship in the UK, whether it is paid or unpaid, you must obtain a visa. This is an authorization issued by the UK Government permitting you to enter the UK. One of the primary requirements of that visa is that you have a sponsor. 1 This is a multiple entry visa so you can leave and re-enter the UK to travel during your internship as many times as you like. 2  Participants cannot take dependents (spouse, children) with them on this visa. 3  The whole visa application process including having your fingerprints taken will take a minimum of 6 weeks.
Doing an internship in London without a UK passport, EU passport or a Tier 4 visa is illegal and is punished with a high fine and / or potential imprisonment. Upon enrollment into the program you will receive a list of documents needed for us to process your visa. You will apply for a Youth Mobility Scheme Tier 5 visa (https://www.gov.uk/tier-5-youth-mobility) allowing you to intern and work in the United Kingdom for up to 24 months. You will be required to provide your bank statements with proof of sufficient funds.
For the benefit of U.S. companies who would like to employ foreign students and recent graduates as interns, as well as foreign nationals who would like to take advantage of internships in USA, we present here, a snapshot of several visa types for USA internships. Under the J-1 internship program, U.S. employers may employ foreign nationals as interns if: 1  they are currently enrolled in and pursuing studies outside the United States; or. 2  they have graduated from a college or university outside the United States no more than 12 months prior to the internship program start date.
No invitation letter needed. 2 x 30 days M-visa (Hong Kong). If applying for your visa in Hong Kong, be aware that 2 x 30 days will be granted (approx. 550 HKD, 70 EUR, 4 working days are required). This can be a hassle if you are doing an internship in Beijing or Shanghai. Longer periods of time for the M-visa cost slightly more, see below. 