Organic sedimentary rocks have a high proportion of fragments of shells, carbon, plants or any other organic remains. Texture is the description of asedimentary rock’s constituent parts and their sizes, shapes, and arrangement. Sediments.
1) weathering of preexisting rocks, followed by transportation and deposition. 2) chemical precipitation of minerals from water. 3) accumulation of biological matter (shells, plant fragments). Sediments that are buried may harden into sedimentary rock thru a process know as lithification.
Classification of Sedimentary Rocks by Origin. Detrital (or clastic) sedimentary rocks-Form from the cementation of sediment grains that come from pre-existing rocks. This is the most common sedimentary rock type. They are classified by grain size, and to a lesser extent by chemical composition.
Sedimentary Rocks, Processes, and Environments Sediments are loose grains and chemical residues of earth materials, which include things such as rock fragments, mineral grains, part of plants or animals, and rust (oxidized iron).
1 Detrital, or clastic-detritus, or fragments, of other rocks (e.g., sandstone); the most important constituents are quartz, calcite, clay minerals (from the weathering of feldspars), rock fragments, and feldspars.
1) Clastic (or detrital) sedimentary rocks-Form from the cementation of sediment grains that come from pre-existing rocks. This is the most common sedimentary rock type. Clastic sedimentary rocks are classified by grain size, and to a lesser extent by chemical composition.
Biochemical sedimentary rocks are formed mostly by the remains (whole or broken) of organisms. These remains can be of different kind and include, but are not limited to, for instance, shells, reefs and corals, structures like echinoids' stems, plant fragments, carbon, and many more.
Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together.