Cantonese Dim Sim. Cantonese Cuisine, also known as Yue Cuisine, is the culinary style of Guangdong Province, which was called Canton when the Wade-Giles romanization of Chinese was in use. 
Besides pork, beef and chicken, Cantonese cuisine incorporates almost all edible meats, including offal, chicken feet, duck's tongue, snakes, and snails. However, lamb and goat are rarely eaten, unlike in the cuisines of northern or western China. There are a small number of deep-fried dishes in Cantonese cuisine, which can often be found as street food. They have been extensively documented in colonial Hong Kong records of the 19th and 20th centuries.
China's Most Cosmopolitan Cuisine. Cantonese cooking, which is from the province of Guangdong, has an undeserved negative reputation, says Kian Lam Kho, the author of Chinese food blog Red Cook who is currently working on a definitive cookbook on classic Chinese cooking techniques. 
Cantonese Cuisine. Cantonese food is the most popular style outside China. Cantonese cuisine originates from the region around Canton (Guangzhou) in southern China's Guangdong province. One Cantonese saying goes that anything that walks, swims, crawls, or flies is edible. Another says that the only four-legged things that Cantonese people won't eat are tables and chairs.
No. Photo Credit: http://www.flickr.com/photos/jakeliefer/. Cantonese cuisine originates from the southern Guangdong region of China, the home of the Cantonese people. Their stronghold is Hong Kong and many of the best chefs and restaurants can be found in the city. Thankfully, the menu and food at a Cantonese take away in Topeka bears little resemblance to that served up in Hong Kong While in China Cantonese cuisine is considered the most sophisticated of the country’s regional cuisines, in the US, UK, Oz and New Zealand it’s often considered a small step up from a Big Mac.
The enduring popularity of southern or Cantonese cuisine comes from the subtle use of sauces and the diversity of ingredients and cooking methods. Cantonese chefs specialize in stir-frying, steaming, and roasting a wide variety of meats, poultry, and seafood. 
Cantonese cuisine (simplified Chinese: 广东菜; traditional Chinese: 廣東菜; pinyin: Guǎngdōngcai) guǎngdōngcài comes From guangdong province and is one of The Eight Culinary traditions Of chinese. cuisine There are a small number of deep-fried dishes in Cantonese cuisine, which can often be found as street food. They have been extensively documented in colonial Hong Kong records of the 19th and 20th centuries.
What is Cantonese Cuisine. Cantonese cuisine comes from the Guangdong province of China. 0. Be the first! Be the first! By Alexandra E. Petri, Editor. Photo Sasabune Omakase Modified: Flickr/ erin / CC 4.0. Cantonese cuisine is among the most well-known of Chinese cuisines. China offers eight types of traditional cuisines, and among those is Cantonese cuisine, which is one of the more internationally-recognized types of Chinese food.
Cantonese cuisine (simplified Chinese: 广东菜; traditional Chinese: 廣東菜; pinyin: Guǎngdōngcai) guǎngdōngcài comes From guangdong province and is one of The Eight Culinary traditions Of chinese. Cuisine its prominence Outside china is due the numbers of emigrants From. guangdong There are a small number of deep-fried dishes in Cantonese cuisine, which can often be found as street food. They have been extensively documented in colonial Hong Kong records of the 19th and 20th centuries.