It is a form of parallel projection, where all the projection lines are orthogonal to the projection plane, resulting in every plane of the scene appearing in affine transformation on the viewing surface. It is further divided into multiview orthographic projections and axonometric projections. With multiview orthographic projections, up to six pictures of an object are produced, with each projection plane parallel to one of the coordinate axes of the object. The views are positioned relative to each other according to either of two schemes: first-angle or third-angle projection.
The orthographic projection has been known since antiquity, with its cartographic uses being well documented. Hipparchus used the projection in the 2nd century BC to determine the places of star-rise and star-set. With multiview orthographic projections, up to six pictures of an object are produced, with each projection plane parallel to one of the coordinate axes of the object. The views are positioned relative to each other according to either of two schemes: first-angle or third-angle projection.
So far we have only covered one method of Orthographic Projection, this is known as First Angle Projection. First Angle Projection is used in Europe and most of the world. However America and Australia use a method known as Third Angle Projection. In First Angle Projection we place our object in the First Quadrant (see above figure). This means that the Vertical Plane is behind the object and the Horizontal Plane is underneath the object. In Third Angle Projection the Object is placed in the Third Quadrant
An orthographic Projection is often called a blueprint. In Technology Class we will not be concerned with a number of the rules that would govern a drawing for a detailed drafting class, but we will endevor to have the students recognize, prepare and be able to read a simple mechanical drawing. 
This means we make the object become 2D. The difference between Orthographic Projection and any other drawing method is that we use several 2D views of the object instead of a single view. Orthographic Projection gives us a very clear method of communicating ideas and objects. It is a method that every engineer in the world recognizes. Because of this we can reproduce any object drawn Orthographically. All of these problems can be overcome using Orthographic Projection. An engineer in Germany can have a plastic bottle made in Japan, exactly as he wants it, without any problem if he sends an Orthographic drawing of the bottle.
An animated Introduction Orthographic Projection Vs Perspective. Compared to help us better understand why we use Ortho in Engineering & CAD. In Engineering we need our information at an object level, not at an observer level. Orthographic covers the object level, and perspective showcases from the observer level. 
For the orthographic projection as a map projection, see Orthographic projection in cartography. For mathematical discussion in terms of linear algebra, see Projection (linear algebra) . Orthographic projection (or orthogonal projection) is a means of representing a three-dimensional object in two dimensions. With multiview orthographic projections, up to six pictures of an object are produced, with each projection plane parallel to one of the coordinate axes of the object. The views are positioned relative to each other according to either of two schemes: first-angle or third-angle projection.