Atenolol and Weight Gain: An Overview. There are a number of possible side effects with atenolol (Tenormin ®). Gradual weight gain, however, does not appear to be one of them. This data comes from clinical trials that extensively studied atenolol and documented its side effects. However, gradual weight gain has been reported rarely with other beta blockers.
Side effects are then usually separated into those that occur in more than 1 percent of people (common side effects) and those that occur in less than 1 percent of people (rare side effects). For people taking atenolol, gradual weight gain was not reported as either a common or rare side effect. Gradual weight gain, however, does not appear to be one of them. This data comes from clinical trials that extensively studied atenolol and documented its side effects. However, gradual weight gain has been reported rarely with other beta blockers.
Tell your doctor right away if any of these unlikely but serious side effects occur: very slow heartbeat, severe dizziness, fainting, trouble breathing, blue fingers/toes, mental/mood changes (such as confusion, mood swings, depression). Tenormin is available in 25, 50 and 100 mg strength tablets; it is also available vials of 5 mg atenolol in ten ml of citrate-buffered solution for intravenous injection. The IV preparation should only be administered by trained personnel.
Yes. Weight gain can occur as a side effect of some beta blockers, especially the older ones, such as atenolol (Tenormin) and metoprolol (Lopressor, Toprol-XL). The average weight gain is no more than 4 pounds (about 2 kilograms). Newer beta blockers, such as carvedilol (Coreg), don't usually cause weight gain as a side effect. Weight may rise in the first weeks of taking the beta blocker and then generally stabilizes.
Uncommon, but serious side effects from atenolol include shortness of breath; swelling of the hands, feet, ankles, or lower legs; unusual weight gain; fainting. If these side effects are experienced, patients should contact their physician or health care provider right away. This information is solely educational. It is used to treat angina (chest pain), hypertension (high blood pressure), and to treat or prevent heart attack. Common side effects of atenolol include decreased sex drive, impotence, insomnia, tiredness, anxiety, and nervousness.
A: Atenolol (Tenormin) is a prescription medicine that has been licensed to treat several conditions related to the heart and blood vessels. It is part of a class of drugs called beta blockers. There are a number of possible side effects with atenolol. Gradual weight gain, however, does not appear to be one of them. It is used to treat angina (chest pain), hypertension (high blood pressure), and to treat or prevent heart attack. Common side effects of atenolol include decreased sex drive, impotence, insomnia, tiredness, anxiety, and nervousness.
Tenormin (atenolol) (and Tenormin IV) is a beta-blocker used mainly for control of hypertension, angina, for management of acute myocardial infarction and occasionally for thyroid storm management. Tenormin is available as generic atenolol in tablets and IV. Side effects of Tenormin may include dizziness, tired feeling, slow heart rate, depression, decreased sex drive, impotence, difficulty having an orgasm, sleep problems (insomnia), anxiety, nervousness, and mild shortness of breath for both preparations. Tenormin is available in 25, 50 and 100 mg strength tablets; it is also available vials of 5 mg atenolol in ten ml of citrate-buffered solution for intravenous injection. The IV preparation should only be administered by trained personnel.
A: Atenolol (Tenormin) is a prescription medicine that has been licensed to treat several conditions related to the heart and blood vessels. It's part of a class of drugs called beta blockers. There are a number of possible side effects with atenolol. Gradual weight gain, however, does not appear to be one of them. It is used to treat angina (chest pain), hypertension (high blood pressure), and to treat or prevent heart attack. Common side effects of atenolol include decreased sex drive, impotence, insomnia, tiredness, anxiety, and nervousness.
Tell your doctor right away if any of these unlikely but serious side effects occur: very slow heartbeat, severe dizziness, fainting, trouble breathing, blue fingers/toes, mental/mood changes (such as confusion, mood swings, depression). 