Overview. The highly distinctive aye-aye is the world’s largest nocturnal primate. It has a number of extreme morphological adaptations to its unusual feeding habits, making it one of the most bizarre-looking animals on the planet. The highly distinctive aye-aye is the world’s largest nocturnal primate. It has a thick coat of coarse black or brown hair flecked with white from longer guard hairs, and a long bushy tail which more than doubles the length of the body.
Aye Aye Behaviour and Lifestyle. The Aye Aye is a nocturnal and arboreal animal meaning that it spends most of it's life high in the trees. Aye Aye Anatomy and Appearance. The Aye Aye is a primate that is most closely related to Lemurs but is one of the most unique animals on the planet due the fact that it possesses a number of very distinct adaptations.
Aye Aye Classification and Evolution The Aye Aye is a species of Lemur that is found inhabiting the rainforests of Madagascar. Aye Aye Anatomy and Appearance. The Aye Aye is a primate that is most closely related to Lemurs but is one of the most unique animals on the planet due the fact that it possesses a number of very distinct adaptations.
Aye-ayes are the only primates thought to use echolocation to find prey. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Aye-ayes can be found only on the island of Madagascar. These rare animals may not look like primates at first glance, but they are related to chimpanzees, apes, and humans. Aye-ayes are dark brown or black and are distinguished by a bushy tail that is larger than their body. 
The aye-aye is known as Daubentonia madagascariensis. It is a rodent like animal that can be found in Madagascar. Its features are similar to that of a rodent. The aye-aye can be called as a lemur and belongs to the Daubentoniidae family. It is the only extant member of the genus Daubentonia. The aye-aye might become extinct in less than 1000 years. You would be interested to know that this rodent got its binomial name, Louis-Jean-Marie Daubenton, who is a French naturalist. Since the lemur is found in Madagascar, the second name
According to Sonnerat, the name aye-aye was a  cri d'exclamation & d'etonnement  (étonnement cry of exclamation and). Astonishment, However american Paleoanthropologist Ian tattersall noted in 1982 that the name resembles The malagasy name hai hai or hay, hay which is used around the. island From an ecological point of view the aye-aye fills the niche of a woodpecker, as it is capable of penetrating wood to extract the invertebrates within. The aye-aye is the only extant member of the genus Daubentonia and family Daubentoniidae.
The aye-aye (Daubentonia madagascariensis) is a lemur, a strepsirrhine primate native to Madagascar that combines rodent-like teeth and a special thin middle finger. From an ecological point of view the aye-aye fills the niche of a woodpecker, as it is capable of penetrating wood to extract the invertebrates within. The aye-aye is the only extant member of the genus Daubentonia and family Daubentoniidae.
Daubentonia. The bizarre aye-aye (Daubentonia madagascariensis) is one of the most unusual primates on the planet, so much so that it was originally classified as a rodent. The thick coat of the aye-aye is slate grey to brown with white flecks from the long guard hairs, which are lighter at the tip. 1 The aye-aye's appearance is so unusual that it was initially classified as a rodent rather than a primate. 2  Endemic to Madagascar, the aye-aye is the world's largest nocturnal primate. 3  Unlike other primates, the aye-aye's incisors are ever-growing which prevents the teeth wearing down from gnawing on wood and nuts
In length, a full-grown aye-aye is typically about three feet long with a tail as long as its body. Among the aye-aye's signature traits are its fingers. The third finger, which is thinner than the others, is used for tapping and grooming, while the fourth finger, the longest, is used for pulling bugs out of trees. From an ecological point of view the aye-aye fills the niche of a woodpecker, as it is capable of penetrating wood to extract the invertebrates within. The aye-aye is the only extant member of the genus Daubentonia and family Daubentoniidae.