1 European Community Whole Vehicle Type Approval (ECWVTA), currently this applies to passenger cars. 2  On the 29th October 2012, ECWVTA was extended to cover all new road vehicles and their trailers. UNECE Regulations to which the Community has acceded and which are listed in Part I of Annex IV and in Annex XI of the frame Directive are part of the EC type-approval of a vehicle in the same way as the separate directives or regulations.
Vehicle Type Approval is the confirmation that production samples of a design will meet specified performance standards. Traditionally, there are two systems of Type Approval in Europe. The first one bases on the EC Directives and regulates the approval of whole vehicles, vehicle systems, and separate components. Type Approval is not a term confined to a particular industry. Type Approval requirements exist for products as diverse as marine equipment, mobile phones, automotive industry, or medical equipment. Type approval simply means that the product is certified to meet certain requirements for its type, whatever that may be.
The Australian vehicle certification system for new vehicles is a type approval system. This means that a vehicle representing the design of that make-model (the “type” of vehicle) is tested to demonstrate compliance with the safety and emissions standard. Before a road vehicle can be registered for the first time in Australia it must meet the requirements of the Motor Vehicle Standards Act 1989 (the Act), which applies to new and used imported vehicles and locally manufactured vehicles.
Type Approval or Certificate of Conformity is granted to a product that meets a minimum set of regulatory, technical and safety requirements. Generally, type approval is required before a product is allowed to be sold in a particular country, so the requirements for a given product will vary around the world. Type Approval is not a term confined to a particular industry. Type Approval requirements exist for products as diverse as marine equipment, mobile phones, automotive industry, or medical equipment. Type approval simply means that the product is certified to meet certain requirements for its type, whatever that may be.
Best Answer: Some time ago a system was introduced for a blanket approval for a type of car. One of yours has been through this process and the other is probably too old to have been covered so it is null or not applicable. 
1 European Community Whole Vehicle Type Approval (ECWVTA), this currently applies to passenger cars. from the 29th October 2012, ECWVTA was extended to cover all new road vehicles and their trailers. Type Approval is not a term confined to a particular industry. Type Approval requirements exist for products as diverse as marine equipment, mobile phones, automotive industry, or medical equipment. Type approval simply means that the product is certified to meet certain requirements for its type, whatever that may be.
Vehicle Type Approval. VCA is the designated UK Approval Authority and Technical Service for type approval to all automotive European Community (EC) Directives and the equivalent United Nations Economic Community for Europe (ECE) Regulations. Vehicle Type Approval is the confirmation that production samples of a design will meet specified performance standards. Click on the relevant link for more specific information by vehicle type approval and ways in which VCA can help you.
Compliance to type-approval requirements can be denoted by a third-party marking on the back of the product (e.g. UL, TUV, CSA), or by a Type-Approval certificate obtained by a manufacturer and kept on file. Type Approval is not a term confined to a particular industry. Type Approval requirements exist for products as diverse as marine equipment, mobile phones, automotive industry, or medical equipment. Type approval simply means that the product is certified to meet certain requirements for its type, whatever that may be.