Crustaceans are arthropods of the mainly aquatic class Crustacea, typically having a carapace hardened with lime, and include lobsters, crabs, shrimps, woodlice, barnacles, co … pe, and water fleas. The exoskeleton of a crustacean is sometimes a protection from predators. An animal that has an exoskeleton, mainly aquatic animals.   Crustacean noun, any arthropod of the mainly aquatic class Crustacea, typically having a carapace hardened with lime and including the lobsters, crabs, shrimps, woodlice, barnacles, co
Crustaceans are equipped with jointed appendages and a hard external skeleton (exoskeleton) which we often call the shell. The shell is usually jointed. Most soft body parts are contained within the shell. The bodies of crustaceans display bilateral symmetry, meaning that the body is organized fore and aft. Crustaceans have a definite brain in the head at the front of the body. Barnacles develop from an egg into a larval stage in a manner similar to lobsters, shrimps and crabs. Barnacles also possess the jointed appendages found in other crustaceans. But barnacles only display some of these characteristics as larvae.
In some barnacles, the cement glands are fixed to a long, muscular stalk, but in most they are part of a flat membrane or calcified plate. A ring of plates surrounds the body, homologous with the carapace of other crustaceans. These consist of the rostrum, two lateral plates, two carinolaterals, and a carina. The main sense of barnacles appears to be touch, with the hairs on the limbs being especially sensitive. The adult also has a single eye, although this is probably only capable of sensing the difference between light and dark. This eye is derived from the primary naupliar eye.
In bilateral symmetry (also called plane symmetry), only one plane, called the sagittal plane, will divide an organism into roughly mirror image halves (with respect to external appearance only, see situs solitus). Thus there is approximate reflection symmetry. The most common corals in the subclass Hexacorallia have a hexameric body plan; their polyps have sixfold internal symmetry and the number of their tentacles is a multiple of six. Octamerism is found in corals of the subclass Octocorallia. These have polyps with eight tentacles and octameric radial symmetry.
Symmetry in biology is the balanced distribution of duplicate body parts or shapes. In nature and biology, symmetry is approximate. For example, plant leaves, while considered symmetrical, rarely match up exactly when folded in half. The most common corals in the subclass Hexacorallia have a hexameric body plan; their polyps have sixfold internal symmetry and the number of their tentacles is a multiple of six. Octamerism is found in corals of the subclass Octocorallia. These have polyps with eight tentacles and octameric radial symmetry.
Body. Humans have bilateral body symmetry, which means that it can be divided into matching halves by drawing a line down the center; the left and right sides are mirror images of each other. Bilateral symmetry may help your brain recognize when your body is in different positions and make visual perception easier. Humans have bodily symmetry, similar to other animals and organisms in nature, which may be a factor that helps us control and interact with other people and organisms. Symmetrical traits may have developed to help us recognize each other and control our body movements.
A barnacle is a type of arthropod constituting the infraclass Cirripedia in the subphylum Crustacea, and is hence related to crabs and lobsters. Barnacles are exclusively marine, and tend to live in shallow and tidal waters, typically in erosive settings. They are sessile (nonmotile) suspension feeders, and have two nektonic (active swimming) larval stages. Around 1,220 barnacle species are currently known. The name Cirripedia is Latin, meaning curl-footed. The main sense of barnacles appears to be touch, with the hairs on the limbs being especially sensitive. The adult also has a single eye, although this is probably only capable of sensing the difference between light and dark. This eye is derived from the primary naupliar eye.
Animals that are bilaterally symmetric have mirror symmetry in the sagittal plane, which divides the body vertically into left and right halves, with one of each sense organ and limb pair on either side. The great majority (at least 99%) of animals are bilaterally symmetric, including humans (see also facial symmetry). The most common corals in the subclass Hexacorallia have a hexameric body plan; their polyps have sixfold internal symmetry and the number of their tentacles is a multiple of six. Octamerism is found in corals of the subclass Octocorallia. These have polyps with eight tentacles and octameric radial symmetry.
Confidence votes 242K. Passionate about all things Australian. Crustaceans, like all arthropods, have bilateral symmetry. This means they have symmetry across one plane (known as the sagittal plane, and directly down the centre of their body), which means one side of their body approximately mirrors the other side. An animal that has an exoskeleton, mainly aquatic animals.   Crustacean noun, any arthropod of the mainly aquatic class Crustacea, typically having a carapace hardened with lime and including the lobsters, crabs, shrimps, woodlice, barnacles, cope, and water fleas.
The order Pedunculata ( goose barnacles  and others) attach themselves by means of a stalk. Free-living barnacles are attached to the substratum by cement glands that form the base of the first pair of antennae; in effect, the animal is fixed upside down by means of its forehead. The main sense of barnacles appears to be touch, with the hairs on the limbs being especially sensitive. The adult also has a single eye, although this is probably only capable of sensing the difference between light and dark. This eye is derived from the primary naupliar eye.