Answer by R.kayed. Confidence votes 920. Henna is made from the Henna Bush. the leaves are picked, then spread on a large tray and left under the scorching heat of the sun until dried and brown. These leaves are then pounded to break into very small bits and then grounded finely. The henna is usually stored in a dry place ready for each use. A a paste is made from the henna powder, the resulting paste is Henna which is applied by putting into cones for the hands and in a bowl for the hair and feet. The hand made paste is then applied by a skilled henna artist who makes fine intricate designs and patterns on the hands
Henna is. 1  a flowering plant, 2  or dyes (tattoo ink) made from it, 3  or body art (tattoo) made with the dye. 4  by a cone (baker's funnel). 5  by a nozzle or. 6  by a spatula to spread it over a stencil. 7  by a brush etc. 
Mehndi or henna is a paste that is bought in a cone-shaped tube and is made into designs for men and women. Mehndi is derived from the Sanskrit word mendhikā. The use of mehndi and turmeric is described in the earliest Hindu Vedic ritual books. 
Henna (Lawsonia inermis, also known as hina, the henna tree, the mignonette tree, and the Egyptian privet) is a flowering plant and the sole species of the Lawsonia genus. Commercially packaged henna, intended for use as a cosmetic hair dye, is available in many countries, and is now popular in India, as well as the Middle East, Europe, Australia, Canada and the United States.
Mehndi (also called Mehandi) is the traditional art of painting the hands, feet or body with a paste made from the powdered, dried leaves of the henna plant (Botanical name: Lawsonia Inermis). Mehndi is the art of applying designs to the skin through the application of pastes made with henna powder on different parts of the body. Henna was most often applied to the hands and feet. Henna was first applied as a means to cool down the body. A dot was applied to the palm of the hands and helped to cool the body.
Henna has been used since antiquity to dye skin, hair and fingernails, as well as fabrics including silk, wool and leather. The name is used in other skin and hair dyes, such as black henna and neutral henna, neither of which is derived from the henna plant. Commercially packaged henna, intended for use as a cosmetic hair dye, is available in many countries, and is now popular in India, as well as the Middle East, Europe, Australia, Canada and the United States.
Natural Henna is made from the leaves of the henna plant. They are ground up and mixed to a paste with a liquid, be it lemon juice, coffee or tea or bottled water. If the qual … ity is good enough it can be used for body art, if it`s not that high, it can still be used for dyeing nails and hair. The henna is usually stored in a dry place ready for each use. A a paste is made from the henna powder, the resulting paste is Henna which is applied by putting into cones for the hands and in a bowl for the hair and feet. The hand made paste is then applied by a skilled henna artist who makes fine intricate designs and patterns on the hands
It is used since ancient time to color skin, hair, fingernails, leather, and wool. The name Henna is also used for dye or paste derived from the leaves of the plant, and for the art of temporary tattooing from those paste. Our henna paste is made of henna leaves and some traces of eucalyptus and clove oil. If you are allergic to eucalyptus oil, we advise not to get henna. If you are buying henna from market, please make sure you get proper information regarding it's origin and contains. Henna is never black.