Pre-foreclosure in some states lasts more than 13 months. When you miss mortgage payments you could start a process that ends in your home's foreclosure. There's also a period of time between when your mortgage lender considers your loan in default and when it actually forecloses that's called pre-foreclosure. Mortgage pre-foreclosure begins when your lender records and then sends you a notice of default. Once you've defaulted on your mortgage your lender must then give you a legally mandated period of time to cure that default. Pre-foreclosure periods in states such as California, where nonjudicial foreclosure without use of the courts is common, are relatively short
The average foreclosure in New York, New Jersey, Florida, Hawaii, and Illinois takes longer than foreclosures in other states. 
It takes much longer than that in Florida, where the process averages 1,027 days, nearly 3 years. In D.C., foreclosure averages 1,053 days and delinquent borrowers in New York often stay in their homes for an average of 906 days. And while some borrowers are looking for ways to make good with lenders and get their homes back, many aren't paying a dime. Nationwide, the average time it takes to process a foreclosure -- from the first missed payment to the final foreclosure auction -- has climbed to 674 days from 253 days just four years ago, according to LPS Applied Analytics.
A notice of sale is published in a general circulation newspaper once a week for at least 4 weeks prior to the sale. The foreclosure process in New York currently takes about 445 days (15 months) from the date of the first missed payment to the sale of the home. Foreclosure sales in New York are by public auction, usually at a county courthouse. The home is sold to the highest bidder and anyone, including the lender, may bid. If your mortgage is for a home you live in, the lender or loan servicer must send you a pre-foreclosure notice at least 90 days before commencing foreclosure. This 90-day window gives you the opportunity to try to work with your lender to find an alternative to foreclosure.
Foreclosure free ride: 3 years, no payments. NEW YORK (CNNMoney) -- Delinquent borrowers facing foreclosure are learning that they can stay in their homes for years, as long as they're willing to put up a fight. Nationwide, the average time it takes to process a foreclosure -- from the first missed payment to the final foreclosure auction -- has climbed to 674 days from 253 days just four years ago, according to LPS Applied Analytics.
In New York, the lenders go to court in what is known as a judicial foreclosure proceeding where the court must issue a final judgment of foreclosure. The property is then sold as part of a publicly noticed sale. The laws that govern New York foreclosures are found in New York State Consolidated Laws, Article 13. Privacy Policy | Terms and Conditions of Service | © Foreclosure.com / ForeclosureFreeSearch, Inc 1999-2015.
Notice of Default. The Notice of Default starts the official foreclosure process. This notice is issued 30 days after the fourth missed monthly payment. From this point onwards, the borrower will have 2 to 3 months, depending on state law, to reinstate the loan and stop the foreclosure process. 