Manufactured Gas Plants. Manufactured gas plants (MGPs) had their roots in the 1700's with the discovery that a process of heating coal would produce a gas that could be used for illumination. Long before the introduction of electricity, streets, homes and businesses were lit with this manufactured gas, which became known as gaslight. While the original focus of the manufactured gas industry was to supply small amounts of gas for street lighting systems, this changed with rapid growth of the mid-1800s. In the 1870's, a new technology emerged that produced gas from oil and water, called the carburetted water gas process.
The site remediation of Manufactured Gas Plant sites is a complex and challenging task due to the recalcitrant nature of the coal tar products and PAHs. Geo-Con has amassed considerable experience remediating MGP sites over the past 20 years. At the turn of the 19th century, most sizable cities had their own Manufactured Gas Plant (MGP) facility, and from the 1850 - 1930s, MGPs were the main source for heating and lighting. During peak use (~ 1920 - 1930's), there were more than 10,000 such facilities in operation throughout the U.S. and Europe.
ARD-EHP-17 2006 Manufactured Gas Plant Waste What is a manufactured gas plant? Until natural gas was introduced, coal was the primary natural resource used for making the gas used to illuminate street lights and mills, as well as for cooking and heating. Manufacturing gas from coal generated a lot of waste. Typically, MGP waste in the form of tars, oils, cinders, coke and ash, was buried or used as fill for construction projects. The wastes contain many chemical constituents that are hazardous to human health.
A facility used to manufacture coal gas, carburetted water gas (CWG), and oil gas is today generally referred to as a manufactured gas plant (MGP). In the early years of MGP operations, the goal of a utility gas works was to produce the greatest amount of illuminating gas. See also: Coal gasification and Coal seam gas. Coal gas is a flammable gaseous fuel made from coal and supplied to the user via a piped distribution system. Town gas is a more general term referring to manufactured gaseous fuels produced for sale to consumers and municipalities.
Brief History. The Era of Manufactured Gas The introduction of manufactured gas in the early 1830s was a step forward in modernizing the nation by providing a constant source of energy for cooking, lighting and hot water. Manufactured gas also was used for street lighting and in many manufacturing processes. Predating the widespread use of electricity, manufactured gas brought homes and businesses the convenience of a continuous flow of energy. 
In the second half of the 19th century, the manufactured fuel gas industry diversified out of lighting and into heat and cooking. The threat from electrical light in the later 1870s and 1880s drove this trend strongly. Many other manufactured fuel gas utilities were founded first in England, and then in the rest of Europe and North America in the 1820s. The technology increased in scale.
From approximately 1888 to 1944, a manufactured gas plant operated on a 12-acre site near the confluence of two creeks near Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania. During the time that the plant was in operation, coal tars and other waste products were disposed of onsite in an open pit. Manufactured gas should not be confused with natural gas, the primary fuel gas of our day. Manufactured, or artificial gas, was produced from coal, coal and oil mixtures, or from petroleum.
MGP is an abbreviation for Manufactured Gas Plant. A manufactured gas plant was an industrial facility at which gas was produced from coal, oil and other feedstocks. The gas was stored, and then piped to the surrounding area, where it was used for lighting, cooking, and heating homes and businesses.
New York's Approach to the Remediation of Former Manufactured Gas Plants (PDF)  (19 pages, 1.29 MB). This document includes a discussion of the history of manufactured gas plants as well as the technical and administrative challenges facing the remediation of these sites. MGP Cleanup Record of Decision Documents for specific sites can be found in the Regional Remediation Projects web pages. Skip to main navigation. From the late 1800's to the mid 1900's, hundreds of manufactured gas plants across New York State supplied homes and industry with fuel for heating, cooking, and lighting. Today, the New York State DEC is overseeing the investigation and cleanup of contamination left behind from these plant