When an infestation is present, the first step in larder beetle management is to try to determine the source of this infestation and remove it. Look in areas where you see the most larder beetles and particularly check out areas where food is stored, including dry pet food. They have a cream to yellow colored band across the top of their wing covers with six dark colored spots inside it. They are about 1/4-1/3 inch in length (fig. 1). The larvae are worm-like, fairly hairy, reddish to dark brown in color.
A. Larder beetles in the house are pesky pests to get rid of because any animal byproduct can be affected by larder beetles. We recommend using 565 Plus XLO to use around cracks and crevices, especially paying attention to the baseboard areas. We also recommend using Delta Dust in the wall void area. 
LARDER BEETLES. Description Like ladybugs, larder beetles belong to the order Coleoptera (beetles). They, too, have rigid protective wings, but at first sight they seem to be darker in colour. The colour pattern of the larder beetle is easy to recognize with its wide, light yellowish band across the first pair of wings.
Larder Beetle Pest Control. If you are unable to manage your infestation of larder beetles, professional help may be sought. In order to help your technician locate and remove these beetles, you may want to identify and locate the food source. All about the Larder Beetle. The larder beetle gets its name from its tendency to be found in larders, as the name would suggest. These tiny beetles like our food sources as much as we do and can quickly take over your pantry, or larder, if uncontrolled. Larder beetles are less-commonly known as skin beetles.
The larder beetle may get its name from the fact that it is a pest of cured meat and other stored food products. It is a member of the beetle group called dermestid beetles. When they invade a home, larder beetles move into dark areas where they can find food. They prefer to feed on dead insects and stored meat or cheese. They will also feed on feathers, skins, horns and dry pet food. Reproduction. The female beetles lay eggs in the spring and summer. When the eggs hatch, the larvae burrow into the food material. The larvae mature to pupae and then adults in two or three months. When it time for them to change into adults, the larvae leave the food and burrow into a soli
How To Get Rid Of Larder Beetles. Larder beetles can be controlled much like other pantry beetles: once you remove the food source, you can get rid of the majority of your infestation. Here are some steps to take when getting rid of larder beetles. 1  Determine the source of the infestation and remove the food source. 2  Removing the food source is a quick and easy way to get rid of the bulk of the beetles or larvae. 1 Removing the food source is a quick and easy way to get rid of the bulk of the beetles or larvae. 2  However, this gets tricky when the food source may be somewhere inaccessible, like in a wall void or attic. 3  You can wait until the beetles have eaten the food source, because they will leave once there is no more food.
Figure 2. Larder beetle larvae. Note the spines at the end of the abdomen that curve backwards. The adult beetles are dark brown and oval shaped. They have a cream to yellow colored band across the top of their wing covers with six dark colored spots inside it. They are about 1/4-1/3 inch in length (fig. 1). The larvae are worm-like, fairly hairy, reddish to dark brown in color.
I need to know how to get rid of them the main place they have been found is in a set of drawers on one side of the kitchen.I have pulled them out and looked for anything back there and cannot see anything. I did research and I know there are no dead animals in my house of any kind. After the food was sealed I found them in the basement but there was nothing down there food... show more We have owned this house for 3 years and every spring/summer larder beetles show up. Mostly in the kitchen and mostly dead ones. I have thrown all the food away years ago and bought all new and stored it sealed containers