Lipid bilayer is a universal component of all cell membranes. The structure is called a lipid bilayer because it composed of two layers of fatty acids organized in two sheets. The lipid bilayer is typically about five nanometers to ten nanometers thick and surrounds all cells providing the cell membrane structure. Lipids are fats, like oil, that are insoluble in water because of its long hydrophobic tails. The hydrophobic interactions among several phospholipids and glycolipids, a certain structure called lipid bilayer or bimolecular sheet is favored.
They are formed in sheet-like structures that contain both a hydrophilic and a hydrophobic moiety. The membrane is composed of lipids and proteins and sometimes even carbohydrates. There are two different membrane proteins in the lipid bilayer. Integral membrane proteins traverse the lipid bilayer and are adjacent to both the extracellular fluid and the cytoplasm of the cell. Lipids are fats, like oil, that are insoluble in water because of its long hydrophobic tails. The hydrophobic interactions among several phospholipids and glycolipids, a certain structure called lipid bilayer or bimolecular sheet is favored.
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells. The cell membranes of almost all living organisms and many viruses are made of a lipid bilayer, as are the membranes surrounding the cell nucleus and other sub-cellular structures. See Organelle. Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids.
A model lipid bilayer is any bilayer assembled in vitro, as opposed to the bilayer of natural cell membranes or covering various sub-cellular structures like the nucleus. A model bilayer can be made with either synthetic or natural lipids. The simplest model systems contain only a single pure synthetic lipid. 
However, certain charged and polar species do cross the membrane, aided by proteins that move about in the lipid bilayer. The two major classes of proteins in the cell membrane are integral proteinsA protein that spans the lipids bilayer of membranes. , which span the hydrophobic interior of the bilayer, and peripheral proteinsA protein that is more loosely associated with the membrane surface. , which are more loosely associated with the surface of the lipid bilayer (Figure 17.6 Schematic Diagram of a Cell Membrane).
Lipid Bilayer. Lipid Bilayer Phospholipids make up the basic structure of a cell membrane. Phospholipids are more polar than the lipids discussed thus far (triglycerides), because they contain a phosphate group bound to an amino alcohol unit in place of one of the ester linkages of a triglyceride. In the lipid bilayer, the polar “heads” of the phospholipids are arranged so as to interact with the aqueous environments on the inside and the outside of a cell, while the nonpolar “tails” coagulate together to form a nonpolar bilayer.
They found the lipid surface area was twice that of the red blood cells, and concluded that the lipids must be arranged in a layer two lipid molecules thick. Lipid bilayer is a double layer membrane formed from phospholipids. Phospholipids are composed of a polar head group and non-polar fatty acid tails. The arrangement of the phospholipids makes the cell membrane permeable. This is the so called lipid bilayer. Lipid bilayer is permeable to water molecules and other small, uncharged molecules like oxygen, carbon dioxide. A bimolecular sheet formed by amphipathic molecules in which the hydrophobic moieties are on the inside of the sheet and the hydrophilic ones are on the aqueous outside.
The polar, or hydrophilic, end of a lipid faces outward while its non-polar, or hydrophobic, end faces inward. Then, since a cell membrane is a lipid bilayer (BI meaning two), there is another lipid. It's nonpolar end will also face inward, and it's polar end will be on the outside. 