Steppenwolf is the first studio album by American rock band Steppenwolf, released in January 1968 on ABC Dunhill Records. The album was a successful debut for the band, featuring the songs  Born to Be Wild , as well as  The Pusher , both of which were used in the 1969 film Easy Rider. Berry Rides Again is a tribute to guitarist Chuck Berry. The spelling of track #4 on the vinyl is Hootchie Kootchie Man. The album credits say it was recorded at American Recording Company in Studio City, California; however, the actual name of the studio was American Recorders.
Born To Be Wild is track #1 on the album Steppenwolf: All Time Greatest Hits. It was written by Mars Bonfire. Born To Be Wild is track #1 on the album Steppenwolf: All Time Greatest Hits. 
Biography. Though tangentially identified with late-1960s West Coast psychedelia, Steppenwolf's music was uncompromising hard rock, and the term heavy metal was popularized in their first hit, Born to Be Wild.. The Second yielded another massive hit single in Magic Carpet Ride (#3, 1968), and around the same time, Born to Be Wild and The Pusher were featured in the film Easy Rider, more or less solidifying Steppenwolf's enduring identification as a biker band.
+418 other releases. read more. Born to Be Wild is a rock song written by Mars Bonfire (actual name Dennis Eugene McCrohan, born 21 April 1943 in Oshawa, Ontario, Canada; name changed to Dennis Edmonton in the early 1960s); it was made famous by the Canadian rock band, Steppenwolf.
Watch for the upcoming release of “Born To Be Wild Revisited 2015″ with some very special guest artists performing on the song. The band consists of former John Kay and Steppenwolf member Danny Ironstone who also played with, Anita Baker, and The Pointer Sisters. 
Born to Be Wild  is a song first performed by the band Steppenwolf, written by Mars Bonfire. The Pusher , was also used in the film). When the movie was in production, Born to Be Wild was used simply as a placeholder, since Peter Fonda had wanted Crosby, Stills & Nash to do the movie's soundtrack. Eventually, it became clear that the song was well suited for the movie.
And I would say, well, wait a second guys....when we did our first album any tune that we felt had merit, that we could do a credible job on was Steppenwolf. I mean, that's what we played. It didn't have to be Born To Be Wild number 14. Something of a different shade or color was perfectly acceptable. A good example of that was when I, some years ago, woke up and turned on CNN and I heard Born To Be Wild, but what I saw on the screen was the guys in the space shuttle doing stuff. It turned out, CNN said, Houston control wakes up the crew every morning with a different tune.....
Born to Be Wild was the band's third single off their 1968 debut album Steppenwolf and became their most successful single, reaching No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles charts. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine placed Born to Be Wild at No. 129 on the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time list. Also in 2004, it finished at #29 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema. The Pusher , was also used in the film). When the movie was in production, Born to Be Wild was used simply as a placeholder, since Peter Fonda had wanted Crosby, Stills & Nash to do the movie's soundtrack. Eventually, it became clear that the song was well suited for the movie.
This was the second single from Steppenwolf's first album. The first single, Sookie Sookie, was a flop. Frontman John Kay (from Rolling Stone magazine's Top 500 Songs): Every generation thinks they're born to be wild and they can identify with that song as their anthem.. (thanks, Bertrand-Paris, France). 'Born To Be Wild' didn't stand out initially. Even the publishers at Leeds Music didn't take it as the first or second song I gave them. They got it only because I signed as a staff writer. Luckily, it stood out for Steppenwolf.