1 A checking account can be called an interest-bearing checking account when you earn any amount of interest. 2  Any. 3  When choosing accounts, check how much interest is actually earned. 4  Low-end checking accounts will typically earn between 0.05% and 0.5% APY, while high-end accounts may earn more.
Business Savings. Most businesses have business bank accounts, including operating (checking) accounts and savings accounts. Since Dodd-Frank, these accounts might bear interest. Since interest is a stable form of income, this relatively new account feature is attractive to business owners. However, not every bank offers interest on LLC accounts, and those that do may require a minimum account balance.
How is interest calculated? Interest-earning checking accounts generally pay interest daily. However, at credit unions, for instance, dividends that are paid on share-draft accounts may be based on the lowest balance during a dividend period, which can be a month or as long as a quarter.
Free checking accounts are wonderful because you get a lot of features for free. However, you have to give up a very important feature: earnings on your free checking account balance. For those of us who want to earn a little extra, there is a way to earn interest and still have a free checking account.
When you open an interest checking account keep in mind these qualities:  1 Interest Earning doesn't mean you'll earn much. 2  A checking account can be called an interest-bearing checking account when you earn any amount of interest. 3  Any. 4  When choosing accounts, check how much interest is actually earned.
When compared to checking accounts that don't earn interest, you can find accounts that charge no penalty or monthly fees regardless of your balance – so while you won't earn interest on money you have in your checking account, you won't be losing money in monthly bank fees.
Any bank account you set up in the name of your LLC will be, in the view of the bank, a business account and governed by the rules concerning commercial accounts. Prior to the repeal of Regulation Q, the bank would not have been legally allowed to pay interest on the account.
Earning some interest on your business banking deposits and balance could help offset some of the other costs associated with your LLC bank account. If you are looking around for a new business account, be sure to look at costs as well as how much interest the bank will pay on the account.