Maple sap, as it drips from the tree, is a clear liquid containing about 2% dissolved sugar. It looks just like water, and has a very slight sweet taste. The true maple flavor comes out as part of the heating and boiling process. 
Report Abuse. It tastes like maple. Not trying to be funny, but ti has a very distinct flavor. I suggest using pure maple syrup and not that flavored stuff like Log Cabin or Aunt Jemima. those are made with corn syrup and flavored with maple.
Maple syrup can be pretty pricey, so you'd better be sure you know what you're in for when you splurge on a bottle. Between all the grades and shades of maple syrup out on the market (not to mention the imposters!), it can all get a little confusing. But we're here to guide you to the best bottle for your taste. First things first: Always make sure your maple syrup is maple syrup. The good, pure stuff comes from maple trees, whose starch is converted to sugar between winter and spring, resulting in sweet, runny sap. That sap is boiled down to make syrup -- and it's boiled down far more than you may imagine. 
All I can say is there is a HUGE difference between real maple syrup and the maple flavored cheap pancake syrup. You need to try it! Where I live a small bottle of the real stuff is about $6 and you can get a much bigger bottle of flavored crap for like $3. You should go shopping, get both and have a maple syrup challenge. I suggest using pure maple syrup and not that flavored stuff like Log Cabin or Aunt Jemima. those are made with corn syrup and flavored with maple.
Maple sap, as it drips from the tree, is a clear liquid containing about 2% dissolved sugar. It looks just like water, and has a very slight sweet taste. The true maple flavor comes out as part of the heating and boiling process. 6. Depending on the sweetness of the sap, it can take anywhere from 25-75 gallons of raw sap to make a gallon of finished syrup. The usual amount is about 40 gallons of sap to one gallon of syrup. Each tap into a tree will yield about 10 gallons of slightly sweet sap over a period of the 4-5 week sugaring season.
What is the maple sap made of?Mostly sugar and water. As it comes from the tree maple sap is a sterile, crystal clearliquid that tastes sweet. None of the brown color or flavor we identify with maple syrupis in the sap. Fructose comprises 96% of all solid matter in sap, and 99.9% of all thesugar. That'sacceptable; that is life.Making maple syrup, however, does not imply killing. Done properly, tapping maplesis more like eating apples from a tree, blueberries from a bush, eggs from a chicken, ormilk from a cow. We use part of the organism but leave it alive too.
Food Facts. There is nothing that tastes quite like the promise of spring than sap straight from a tapped maple tree. The cool, refreshing and slightly sweet taste can cleanse the palate and awaken the mind from months of hibernation. 
The sap of a maple tree looks like water. It tastes quite a bit like water, too, with just a hint of mapley sweetness. The particular sap used to make syrup is different from that produced by the tree at other times of the year. This sap flows in the late winter and early spring (around the time of what the Native Americans called the “sugar moon”).
Birch syrup is a savory mineral tasting syrup made from the sap of birch trees, and produced in much the same way as maple syrup. Birch sap sugar is about 42–54% fructose and 45% glucose, with a small amount of sucrose and trace amounts of galactose. The flavor of birch syrup has a distinctive and mineral-rich caramel-like taste that is not unlike molasses or balsamic condiment or some types of soy, with a hint of spiciness.