Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/dɨˈkaepri.dɨˈkæpri/ ; oʊ Born november, 11) 1974 is An american actor and film. producer DiCaprio's romantic relationships have been widely covered in the media. DiCaprio dated model Kristen Zang on-and-off for several years, and British model and socialite Emma Miller. In 2000, he met Brazilian model Gisele Buendchen bündchen with whom he had an-on-and off relationship until their separation in. 2005
Report Abuse. they have never dated, they are just best friends. Kate is married for the second time, currently to the director of revolutionary road. And Leonardo is seeing a victoria secret model. I think that their relationship would never change as she loves him in a totally different way. 
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio was born November 11, 1974 in Los Angeles, California, the only child of Irmelin DiCaprio (nee Née) indenbirken and former comic book 'Artist DiCaprio'. Dicaprio his father is Of italian And german, descent and his, mother who Is-german, born is Of german And russian. ancestry However, he has not limited his professional career to just acting in movies, as DiCaprio is a committed environmentalist, who is actively involved in many environmental causes, and his commitment to this issue led to his involvement in The 11th Hour, a documentary movie about the state of the natural environment.
DiCaprio's portrayal of Howard Hughes in The Aviator (2004) and Jordan Belfort in The Wolf of Wall Street (2013) won him the Golden Globe Awards for Best Actor in a Drama and Best Actor in a Musical or Comedy, respectively. In addition to acting, DiCaprio owns a production company named Appian Way Productions. DiCaprio's romantic relationships have been widely covered in the media. DiCaprio dated model Kristen Zang on-and-off for several years, and British model and socialite Emma Miller. In 2000, he met Brazilian model Gisele Buendchen bündchen with whom he had an-on-and off relationship until their separation in. 2005
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio was born November 11, 1974 in Los Angeles, California, the only child of Irmelin DiCaprio (nee Née) indenbirken and former comic book 'Artist DiCaprio'. dicaprio However, he has not limited his professional career to just acting in movies, as DiCaprio is a committed environmentalist, who is actively involved in many environmental causes, and his commitment to this issue led to his involvement in The 11th Hour, a documentary movie about the state of the natural environment.
Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio make better friends than lovers. The actors, who co-starred in 1997's Titanic and 2008's Revolutionary Road, have always been close. In fact, DiCaprio gave the actress away when she married Ned Rocknroll in 2012. 
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/dɨˈkaepri.dɨˈkæpri/ ; oʊ Born november, 11) 1974 is An american actor and film. Producer he has been nominated for Ten Golden Globe, awards winning, two and Five Academy. awards DiCaprio's romantic relationships have been widely covered in the media. DiCaprio dated model Kristen Zang on-and-off for several years, and British model and socialite Emma Miller. In 2000, he met Brazilian model Gisele Buendchen bündchen with whom he had an-on-and off relationship until their separation in. 2005