Dark corn syrup is made with refiners' syrup, a type of molasses. With its more robust flavor and color, it is ideal for many baked goods. Both Karo light and dark corn syrups, along with Karo pancake syrup, are ideal toppings for pancakes, waffles, French toast, and biscuits. 
Golden Syrup also called Refinery Syrup is a pale treacle. It is a thick, amber-colored form of inverted sugar syrup, made in the process of refining sugar cane juice into sugar, or by treatment of a sugar solution with acid. History. 
Refiner’s (a.k.a. “Golden”) Syrup. Refiner’s syrup (also called “golden syrup”) is made, as the name implies, at a sugar refinery, not at the sugar mill which is where molasses is produced. It’s a by product of the making of white sugar, the final “molasses” that’s produced when white sugar is centrifuged. 
Karo dark corn syrup is a mixture of corn syrup and a small amount of refiners' syrup (a cane sugar product with a molasses-like flavor). Caramel flavor, sodium benzoate (a preservative), salt, and caramel color are added. Dark corn syrup has a rich brown color and distinctive flavor. Karo light corn syrup is a mixture of corn syrup and high fructose corn syrup (to provide increased sweetness) and is flavored with salt and pure vanilla.
Dark corn syrup is corn syrup with a small amount of refiners' syrup (a type of molasses derived from sugar cane), caramel flavor, sodium benzoate (a preservative), salt, and caramel color. Dark corn syrup has a medium brown color and a much more assertive flavor. Light corn syrup, according to the company that makes the market-leading Karo brand, is a mixture of corn syrup and high-fructose corn syrup (which provides increased sweetness), flavored with salt and vanilla.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A tin of Lyle's Golden Syrup. Golden syrup or light treacle is a thick, amber-coloured form of inverted sugar syrup made in the process of refining sugar cane or sugar beet juice into sugar, or by treatment of a sugar solution with acid. It is used in a variety of baking recipes and desserts. Refiners return syrup begins as a high brix, pale sucrose syrup made from white sugar and water designed to loosen the dried molasses found on raw sugar crystals. The sucrose saturated content of the initial green syrup impedes sugar crystals from dissolving during the process of washing.
Refiners Syrup, or Partially Inverted Refiners Syrup is a pleasant tasting thick syrup with a rich unique flavor. It is a by product of the refining of cane sugar. It is excellent for cooking and for certain recipes. It should not be confused with corn syrup which is usually produced with enzymes. Nor is it the same as cane juice syrup, or cane sugar. Both of these are produced from sugarcane but are almost 100% sucrose. Refiner's syrup contains large quantities of fructose and glucose in pure form. It does not contain molasses or any of the goodness or nutritious vitamins or minerals from the cane plant.
The sugar cane is boiled and the sugar crystallizes. This is removed and the process repeated. Refiners syrup is a byproduct of one stage of this process. Unlike molasses it does not have the minerals or other solids left over, just certain forms of sugar and moisture. Nor is it the same as cane juice syrup, or cane sugar. Both of these are produced from sugarcane but are almost 100% sucrose. Refiner's syrup contains large quantities of fructose and glucose in pure form. It does not contain molasses or any of the goodness or nutritious vitamins or minerals from the cane plant.
Karo light corn syrup is made with real vanilla Dark corn syrup is made with refiners' syrup, a type of molasses. With its more robust flavor and color, it is ideal for many baked goods. Karo light corn syrup is a mixture of corn syrup and high fructose corn syrup (to provide increased sweetness) and is flavored with salt and pure vanilla.