Allowing Asphalt Curing Before Sealing. After laying asphalt, it’s recommended to wait 30 days before sealing a commercial parking lot and 90 days before sealing a residential driveway. You don’t want to seal your new asphalt until the asphalt is hard enough to withstand power steering.
6 (15cm) concrete should be curred enough for passenger cars and light trucks (like a pickup) in 3 days. Wait about a week before you drive a dump-truck, bus, or other heavy, commercial truck (tractor) over it. Cement never fully dries, the water is bonded chemically. 
I know the concrete is supposed to reach it's rating in 28 days ie - 3000psi concrete takes 28 days to reach that rating, but to wait that long to drive on it seems rediculous. He has a Mustang in storage that weighs 3200lbs and I figured he'd be fine driving it across the driveway into the garage after a week of cure. Re: When to drive on new concrete driveway? My guy asked for seven days for driving cars and not to actually park on it until 14. 28 days is to keep heavy contractor trucks from using it.
The First Week. 1  After adding a concrete patio, driveway or walkways to your. 2  home, protect your investment by not walking on it for at least three days. 3  Disallow pet access to the surface during the first three days. 4  Don’t drive or drag equipment. 5  across the area for at least the first seven days of the curing process. 
Break test will tell a lot. Usually at 7-14 days you can drive on it. In the past I've done lifts only at 7 days to keep work going. Or you can put plywood down to distribute weight for work vehicles. If you're looking for Parking for the homeowner, I would keep them off as long as possible.
Re: When to drive on new concrete driveway? I would wait a week to drive on it and a month to park on it, a mustang only weighs 3200lbs its not a 1 ton truck. Besides concrete guarantees you 2 things, 1 its expensive and 2 someday it will crack. Re: When to drive on new concrete driveway? My guy asked for seven days for driving cars and not to actually park on it until 14. 28 days is to keep heavy contractor trucks from using it.
That depends on the concrete, as well as weather conditions, and the load the concrete would be subjected to. Concrete gains strength over time and the usual benchmarks are 7 … days, and 28 days. At 28 days concrete has usually cured to nearly its maximum strength. Typical concrete takes 28 days (4 weeks) to cure. Prior to the 28 days concrete still has moisture in it that weakens the strength of the concrete. If you seal it prior to 28 … days there is a chance you will be sealing in some of that moisture and hence weakening the integrity of the concrete
Posts. 1,027. About 2 to 3 days for a 4 to 6 drive way. keeping it wet with a waterhose for the 2nd day will let cure slower and will cut down on cracks.Covering it plastic will help hold some water in while it cures. But after the end of the 2nd day just keeping it wet is about all you can do for it. Member. About 2 to 3 days for a 4 to 6 drive way. keeping it wet with a waterhose for the 2nd day will let cure slower and will cut down on cracks.Covering it plastic will help hold some water in while it cures. But after the end of the 2nd day just keeping it wet is about all you can do for it.