Bacteria. Many types of bacteria can cause infections which are localized in the breast or arm and can drain into glands positioned underarms. This causes infections which lead to the lumps under the armpit. For instance, Bartonella Henselae is a bacterium that can cause swollen lymph node
Causes. There could be various causes for a sore bump forming under your arm with the most frequent cause being an infection in the arm, breast, or armpit. Causes that could lead to a lump include infections, autoimmune diseases, cancers, and non-infectious disorders.
Cysts or abscesses under the skin may also produce large, painful lumps in the armpit. These may be caused by shaving or use of antiperspirants (not deodorants). This is most often seen in teens just beginning to shave. Other causes of armpit lumps may include: 1  Cat scratch disease.
When lymph nodes that are present under your arms get enlarged, they form bumps or painful lumps in the armpit. Swollen lymph nodes are also known as swollen glands, swollen nodes, lymphadenopathy, or lymphadenitis. They can affect people of any age group but usually they affect children.
Whether you feel these lumps may be cancerous or common, I highly advise you to see your physician and accordingly, the doctor may or may not order additional testss. However, If the lump is painful and can be rolled around chances are, it may be a cyst of some kind and can be easily treated.
Highlights. 1  The lymph nodes are located under your arm. 2  The lumps can be caused by bacterial or viral infections, allergies, harmless fat or tissue growths, and cancerous growths. 3  Your doctor will conduct a physical examination and may order a biopsy to determine the cause of the lump.
Armpit lumps, or enlargements of one or both of the lymph nodes under the arm, can be cancerous, but may also be an indication of a viral infection such as shingles or chickenpox, a skin irritation stemming from shaving, an allergic reaction to deodorant or other products, or a cyst or boil.
Many people will feel these painful, hard lumps under the arm and be afraid that it is a cancerous growth. However, there are several causes for painful swelling or lumps under the arms that are no cause for alarm, including swollen lymph nodes or infection.