Ganglion-synovial cyst. A ganglion, ganglion cyst, or synovial cyst, is a swelling filled with fluid near a joint or tendon, such as the wrist, hand or fingers. 
A ganglion is a cyst of excess fluid from a tendon or a joint, and is extremely common around the hand and wrist. 
A ganglion cyst is a noncancerous lump that most commonly develops in the wrist or hand. Some occur in the ankles or feet. If a ganglion cyst presses on a nerve, it may be painful. Depending on its location, a ganglion cyst may restrict movement. 
You could be having a ganglion cyst on your wrist. This is otherwise known as Bible cyst. A ganglion cyst is the type of abnormal growth which commonly affects this area. Ganglion cysts commonly affect the tendons which are the special type of tissues adjoining muscles to bones. 
Ganglion cysts are very common lumps within the hand and wrist that occur adjacent to joints or tendons. The most common locations are the top of the wrist (see Figure 1), the palm side of the wrist, the base of the finger on the palm side, and the top of the end joint of the finger (see Figure 2). 
1 Ganglion cysts most commonly occur on the back of the hand at the wrist joint but they can also develop on the palm side of the wrist. 2  When found on the back of the wrist, they become more prominent when the wrist is flexed forward. The cause of ganglion cysts is not known. One theory suggests that trauma causes the tissue of the joint to break down, forming small cysts that then join into a larger, more obvious mass. The most likely theory involves a flaw in the joint capsule or tendon sheath that allows the joint tissue to bulge out.
Introduction. A ganglion cyst is a fluid-filled swelling that usually develops near a joint or tendon. The cyst can range from the size of a pea to the size of a golf ball. Ganglion cysts look and feel like a smooth lump under the skin. 
Ganglion Cyst Overview. A ganglion cyst is a tumor or swelling on top of a joint or the covering of a tendon (tissue that connects muscle to bone). It looks like a sac of liquid (cyst). Inside the cyst is a thick, sticky, clear, colorless, jellylike material. Depending on the size, cysts may feel firm or spongy. 
Ganglion Cyst Overview. A ganglion cyst is a tumor or swelling on top of a joint or the covering of a tendon (tissue that connects muscle to bone). It looks like a sac of liquid (cyst). Inside the cyst is a thick, sticky, clear, colorless, jellylike material. Depending on the size, cysts may feel firm or spongy. The cause of ganglion cysts is not known. One theory suggests that trauma causes the tissue of the joint to break down, forming small cysts that then join into a larger, more obvious mass. The most likely theory involves a flaw in the joint capsule or tendon sheath that allows the joint tissue to bulge out.
Not to be confused with Ganglion (nervous tissue structure). A ganglion cyst, or a synovial cyst, also known as Gideon's Disease, a Bible Cyst, or a Bible Bump, is a non-neoplastic soft tissue lump that may occur in any joint, but most often occurs on, around, or near joints and tendons in the hands or feet. Recurrence rate is higher in aspirated cysts than in excised ones. Ganglion cysts have been found to recur following surgery in 12% to 41% of patients. A six-year outcome study of the treatment of ganglion cysts on the dorsum (back) of the wrist compared excision, aspiration, and no treatment.