A) synaptic knob B) motor end plate C) neuromuscular junction D) synaptic cleft E) transverse tubule Answer: A Diff: 1 Learning Outcome: 7.4 Skill Level: 1 Reviewing Facts and Terms 21) The specialized sarcolemma that contains acetylcholine receptors is the A) synaptic knob. B) motor end plate. 
A. any part of the sarcolemma B. part adjacent to another muscle cell C. motor end plate D. end of the muscle fiber. 1 You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 2  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 3  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 4  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
Answer this questWhen the motor neuron releases acetylcholine into  the neuromuscular junction, the acetylcholine binds to receptors in  the muscle fiber that allows positiv … ely charged ions to enter the  muscle fiber, which results in the muscle fiber contracting. Although the receptor binds to … a signal molecule outside the cell, the entire receptor changes shape-even the part inside the cell. As a result, it causes molecules inside the cell to respond. These molecules, in turn, start a compllicated chain of events inside the cell that tells the cell what to do.
A neuromuscular junction (sometimes called a myoneural junction) is a junction between nerve and muscle; it is a chemical synapse formed by the contact between the presynaptic terminal of a motor neuron and the postsynaptic membrane of a muscle fiber. Muscles will contract or relax when they receive signals from the nervous system. The neuromuscular junction is the site of the signal exchange. The steps of this process in vertebrates occur as follows:(`) The action potential reaches the axon terminal.
• Calcium ions trigger a contraction of the muscle cell. Summary. • Each skeletal muscle cell is individually stimulated by a motor neuron. • The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which leads to depolarization of the motor end plate. • Depolarization of the motor end plate triggers an action potential that propagates along the sarcolemma and down the T Tubules. • This action potential causes the release of calcium ions from the terminal cisternae into the cytosol, triggering contraction of the muscle cell
• The neuromuscular junction is the place where the terminal portion of a motor neuron axon meets a. muscle cell membrane, separated by a synaptic cleft. • An action potential arriving at the axon terminal brings about the release of acetylcholine, which. leads to depolarization of the motor end plate. Release of Acetylcholine. • Acetylcholine is released into the synaptic cleft & calcium ions are pumped out of the axon terminal. ** During the animation note that in addition to the acetylcholine going into the synaptic cleft (blue), calcium ions also move out of the axon terminal (red).
In vertebrates, motor neurons release acetylcholine (ACh), a small molecule neurotransmitter, which diffuses across the synaptic cleft and binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) on the cell membrane of the muscle fiber, also known as the sarcolemma. Muscles will contract or relax when they receive signals from the nervous system. The neuromuscular junction is the site of the signal exchange. The steps of this process in vertebrates occur as follows:(`) The action potential reaches the axon terminal.
The binding of ACh to the receptor can depolarize the muscle fiber, causing a cascade that eventually results in muscle contraction. Neuromuscular junction diseases can be of genetic and autoimmune origin. Muscles will contract or relax when they receive signals from the nervous system. The neuromuscular junction is the site of the signal exchange. The steps of this process in vertebrates occur as follows:(`) The action potential reaches the axon terminal.
An acetylcholine receptor (abbreviated AChR) is an integral membrane protein that responds to the binding of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter. Nicotinic receptors are of two types: Nm and Nn. Nm is located in the neuromuscular junction which causes the contraction of skeletal muscles by way of end-plate potential (EPPs).
Acetylcholine receptors are located on the motor end plate or  postsynaptic sarcolemma. Otto Loewi was a German pharmacologist  whose discovery of acetylcholine earned the 1 … 936 Nobel prize in  Physiology or Medicine which he shared with Sir Henry Dale. In the mammalian ear the sensory receptors (hair cells) for hearing are in the cochlea and for ballance are in the semicircular canals.