Registered Nurses in Seattle can expect to earn an average of $31.80 per hour. The bottom of the pay range sits near $24.43 per hour, and the top verges on $44.08. Career duration is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by the specific employer. Nearly all report receiving medical coverage from their employers and a strong majority collect dental insurance. Experience is an important factor influencing the compensation of Registered Nurses in Seattle, Wash. Respondents with less than five years' experience take home $61K on average. In contrast, those who have been around for five to 10 years earn a noticeably higher average of $71K.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Nurse Practitioner in Seattle, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Nurse Practitioner in Seattle are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of August 2015. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Nurse Practitioner salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Nurse Practitioner in Seattle, WA.
As the number of nursing professionals in Seattle has grown, salaries for nursing professionals have also increased. In 2010 nursing professionals in Seattle reportedly earned an average salary of $77,270 per year. Four years earlier in 2006, nursing professionals in Seattle made an average salary of $70,070 per year. This growth is slower than the salary trend for all careers in Seattle. Of the 52,490 nursing professionals employed in Washington State, 22,920 work in Seattle. The number of nursing professionals in Seattle has grown by 6% from 2006 to 2010. As the number of nursing professionals in Seattle has increased, overall employment in Seattle has
1 I got licensed in Chicago, IL and I'm moving to Seattle in August 07. Today I had an interview at U of W's OR. I was shocked to see the starting salary for me, with 1 year experience, to be $24.73/hr. I started at $24 in Chicago and now make $27/hr after 2 small raises within my first year. I have to have 5 years experience at U of W to make what I was getting in Chicago!
The salary for someone with the job title Staff Nurse-RN-Nursing Home in Seattle, WA varies depending on a number of factors. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Staff Nurse-RN-Nursing Home in the United States is $59,851 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Nursing Home in the United States are expected to make less than $59,851. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Bonu
The salary for someone with the job title Nurse Practitioner in Seattle, WA varies depending on a number of factors. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Nurse Practitioner salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Nurse Practitioner in Seattle, WA.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Nursing Home in Seattle, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Nursing Home in Seattle are expected to make less than the median. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Staff Nurse-RN-Nursing Home in the United States is $59,851 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Nursing Home in the United States are expected to make less than $59,851. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Bonus
Registered Nurse Salary in Washington. Average RN salary in Washington was 3% higher than the nationwide average RN earnings in October 2014 (as per indeed.com). This site reported that the average annual pay of these professional was $69,000. Salary as per Geographical Location. In October 2014, Richland was reported to be the lowest paying city in WA with median annual, monthly, hourly and weekly salary of $65,692, $5,474, $32, and $1,263, respectively.