Number of different molecules can bind to receptors on the cell surface, including hormones. An insulin receptor is one example of a receptor that binds to a hormone, particularly insulin. Like the receptors for other protein hormones, the receptor foe insulin is implanted in the plasma membrane. Insulin is one of the most vital hormones in our body, as it regulates the glucose level, a sugar in blood. This protein is formed in the specialized cells of pancreas called ‘ beta islet cells ’. In response to the glucose levels in the blood, these cells become activated to produce insulin.
When insulin binds to the receptor on the cell surface, the receptor changes shape so that the kinase regions inside the cell become activated. The activated insulin receptor then activates a number of different targets within the cell. Many different types of molecules can bind to receptors on the cell surface, including hormones. An insulin receptor is an example of a receptor that binds to a hormones, specifically insulin.
The insulin receptor (IR) is a transmembrane receptor that is activated by insulin, IGF-I, IGF-II and belongs to the large class of tyrosine kinase receptors. Effect of insulin on glucose uptake and metabolism. Insulin binds to its receptor (1), which, in turn, starts many protein activation cascades (2). These include: translocation of Glut-4 transporter to the plasma membrane and influx of glucose (3), glycogen synthesis (4), glycolysis (5), and fatty acid synthesis (6).
On reaching the liver, insulin interacts with the insulin receptors found on the cell membranes of the liver cells. Insulin does not enter the cell after it has attached to a receptor. Instead, the receptor is activated and causes another substance to be generated or activated within the cell. Many different types of molecules can bind to receptors on the cell surface, including hormones. An insulin receptor is an example of a receptor that binds to a hormones, specifically insulin.
Metabolically, the insulin receptor plays a key role in the regulation of glucose homeostasis, a functional process that under degenerate conditions may result in a range of clinical manifestations including diabetes and cancer. Effect of insulin on glucose uptake and metabolism. Insulin binds to its receptor (1), which, in turn, starts many protein activation cascades (2). These include: translocation of Glut-4 transporter to the plasma membrane and influx of glucose (3), glycogen synthesis (4), glycolysis (5), and fatty acid synthesis (6).
A American Diabetes Association answered. Insulin receptors are areas on the outer part of a cell that allow the cell to bind with insulin in the blood. When the cell and insulin bind, the cell can take glucose from the blood and use it for energy. 
Usually, receptors are proteins found on or within the membrane. Many different types of molecules can bind to receptors on the cell surface, including hormones. An insulin receptor is an example of a receptor that binds to a hormones, specifically insulin. Insulin is a very important hormone as it regulates the level of glucose, a sugar, in the blood
The INSR gene provides instructions for making a protein called an insulin receptor, which is found in many types of cells. Insulin receptors are embedded in the outer membrane surrounding the cell, where they attach (bind) to the hormone insulin circulating in the bloodstream. 
354,380 Helpful Votes. 388 Followers. A. Insulin receptors are areas on the outer part of a cell that allow insulin in the blood to join or bind with the cell. When the cell and insulin bind together, the cell can take glucose from the blood and use it for energy