The H1B processing time varies because all cases are different. Generally it takes between three to six months to process an H-1B visa. You must wait at least two weeks after you send in your application for a receipt from the USCIS and another two weeks before you call the USCIS to check the status. 
7. Wait for the H1B petition to be processed. Processing times vary depending upon service center and the visa. It could be a few months wait. If the H1B employer can show a substantial need for the employee, USCIS might approve the petition sooner. There is no set timeframe for a visa to be processed by the USCIS when filed through Regular Processing (it can take anywhere from 1 month to 6 months) Below is an outline for the Regular H1B visa Processing method. H1B Visa - ' Regular' Application Process: 1
H1B Visa Application Process-H1B Regular Processing H1B visa applications can be filed by US employers one of 2 methods: - H1B Regular Processing, or-H1B Premium Processing The difference is that H1B Premium Processing is a faster method to obtain an H1B visa. There is no set timeframe for a visa to be processed by the USCIS when filed through Regular Processing (it can take anywhere from 1 month to 6 months) Below is an outline for the Regular H1B visa Processing method. H1B Visa - ' Regular' Application Process: 1
Family of (Spouse and unmarried children under 21) of an H1 visa holder is eligible to get H-4 visas to live in US. There is no additional qualification required for H4 visa. The duration of H4 visa is the same as H1B visa of the principal. H4 visa holders are not allowed work in US and are also not eligible to get a Social Security Number. H1 Visa holders can get drivers license and get and tax payer id for tax purpose. H4 visa holders can apply for other nonimmigrant such as the F-1 (student Visa). H4 Visa applicants can apply for employment, get H1B visa and legally work in US. H4 visa can be obtained at local US consulate office in applicant’s home country. If the applicant (H4 Visa applicant) is already in the US, then H-4 visa can be obtained by filing Form I-539. (TOP)
H1B Visa Premium Processing. As the name suggests, the Premium Processing Service allows a faster processing time after the H1 visa petition is received. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS, formerly the INS) guarantee that it will process the visa petition within 15 days under this service. 
The H1B visa classification permits a foreign national to work in the United States for a temporary period. It is available for offers of employment that are in a specialty occupation*. A person may hold H1B status for a maximum of six years, and it may be issued in increments of up to three years by the USCIS. 
However, if that office is taking longer than the visa processing time goal (including H1B processing) to handle the visa form type in question, you will see the filing date (e.g., April 10, 2003) of the last case that was processed on the date the chart was last updated. 
If you're a worker with legal nonimmigrant status, you can apply for dependent visas for your children and spouse so they can join you for as long as your visa is valid. A dependent visa, also called an H-4 visa, can be applied for any time after your H-1B petition is approved. Read on to learn the procedure for applying for a dependent visa from outside the US, and applying for an extension from inside the US. In order to apply for the H-4 visa, you will need the following documents: 1  A copy of the H-1B approval form (form I-797). 2  A marriage certificate or birth certificate showing the relationship between the H-1B holder and child or spouse.