Anxiety medications are used either alone or in combination with psychotherapy to treat a number of different disorders all classified as “anxiety disorders.” These include: 1  Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD). 2  Phobias. 3  Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). 4  Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). 5  Panic disorder (PD). 
Other possible side effects include drowsiness, poor concentration, and irritability. Some anticonvulsant drugs (such as Lyrica or Neurontin) and some atypical antipsychotics (such as Abilify or Seroquel) are also occasionally used off label to treat anxiety symptoms or disorders. WebMD Medical Reference
Some of the most commonly used include: 1  Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), such as Brintellix, Celexa, Lexapro, Luvox, Paxil, Prozac, Zoloft, and Viibryd are newer medicines that both act as SSRIs and also affect other serotonin receptors. Some anticonvulsant drugs (such as Lyrica or Neurontin) and some atypical antipsychotics (such as Abilify or Seroquel) are also occasionally used off label to treat anxiety symptoms or disorders.
Four major classes of medications are used in the treatment of anxiety disorders: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs). SSRIs relieve symptoms by blocking the reabsorption, or reuptake, of serotonin by certain nerve cells in the brain. This leaves more serotonin available, which improves mood. These medications are considered as effective as SSRIs, so they are also considered a first-line treatment, particularly for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. Benzodiazepines. This class of drugs is frequently used for short-term management of anxiety.
Medication. Medication treatment of anxiety is generally safe and effective and is often used in conjunction with therapy. Medication may be a short-term or long-term treatment option, depending on severity of symptoms, other medical conditions, and other individual circumstances. These medications are considered as effective as SSRIs, so they are also considered a first-line treatment, particularly for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. Benzodiazepines. This class of drugs is frequently used for short-term management of anxiety.
Medicines used to treat anxiety disorder may be especially helpful for people whose anxiety is interfering with daily functioning. The medications most often used to treat anxiety are: 1  Benzodiazepines. 2  These medications are sometimes referred to as tranquilizers, because they may leave you feeling calm and relaxed. 
1 Examples of antidepressants used to treat anxiety disorders include escitalopram (Lexapro), duloxetine (Cymbalta), venlafaxine (Effexor XR) and paroxetine (Paxil, Pexeva). 2  Your doctor also may recommend other antidepressants. 3  Buspirone. 4  An anti-anxiety medication called buspirone may be used on an ongoing basis. 1 In limited circumstances, your doctor may prescribe one of these sedatives for relief of anxiety symptoms. 2  Examples include alprazolam (Niravam, Xanax), chlordiazepoxide (Librium), diazepam (Valium) and lorazepam (Ativan). 3  Benzodiazepines are generally used only for relieving acute anxiety on a short-term basis.
Other anti-anxiety drugs include the benzodiazepines, such as Valium, Ativan and Xanax. These drugs do carry a risk of addiction or tolerance (meaning that higher and higher doses become necessary to achieve the same effect), so they are not as desirable for long-term use. Some anticonvulsant drugs (such as Lyrica or Neurontin) and some atypical antipsychotics (such as Abilify or Seroquel) are also occasionally used off label to treat anxiety symptoms or disorders.
Considering taking medication to treat Anxiety with Depression? Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Anxiety with Depression. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Anxiety with Depression returned the following treatments. 
That distress may also manifest itself in physical symptoms such as muscle tension, headaches, or chest pain. Anxiety medications include multiple types of drugs that are used to treat the symptoms of anxiety disorders. The three most commonly prescribed types of anxiety medication are antidepressants, anti-anxiety medications (also known as anxiolytics), and beta-blockers. 