What To Think About. 1  Stool tests can produce false-positive and false-negative results. 2  False-positive means that the test may be positive when you don't have a polyp or cancer. 3  False-negative means that the test may be negative when you do have a polyp or cancer. An abnormal FIT/iFOBT or FOBT test means that there was some blood in your stool at the time of the test. An abnormal sDNA test means that some abnormal cells were found. Abnormal test results are called positive.
1 If you had the test to screen for colon cancer and you're at average risk — you have no colon cancer risk factors other than age — your doctor may recommend waiting one year and then repeating the test. 2  Positive result. 3  A fecal occult blood test is considered positive if blood is detected in your stool samples. 1 A fecal occult blood test is considered positive if blood is detected in your stool samples. 2  You may need additional testing — such as a colonoscopy — to locate the source of the bleeding.
1 And a negative FOBT (no blood found) does not mean that you do not have polyps or colorectal cancer. 2  If a fecal occult blood test is positive for blood in the stool, it is important to have a colonoscopy to help your doctor find the source of the blood and remove polyps if they are found. 1 If a fecal occult blood test is positive for blood in the stool, it is important to have a colonoscopy to help your doctor find the source of the blood and remove polyps if they are found. 2  Fecal immunochemical test (FIT).
Sometimes cancers or polyps bleed. A fecal occult blood test (FOBT) checks for blood in your stool. It can often find polyps and cancer. However, sometimes the test can indicate that there's a polyp or cancer when there isn't. This is called a false positive. Or it can miss a polyp that doesn't bleed.
A colon polyp, a precancerous polyp, or cancer can cause a positive stool test. With a positive test, there is a small chance that you have early-stage colorectal cancer. Talk with your doctor about what test you may need next. Most of the time, an abnormal stool test means that you will need to have a colonoscopy. An abnormal FIT/iFOBT or FOBT test means that there was some blood in your stool at the time of the test. An abnormal sDNA test means that some abnormal cells were found. Abnormal test results are called positive.
1 Stool tests can produce false-positive and false-negative results. 2  False-positive means that the test may be positive when you don't have a polyp or cancer. 3  False-negative means that the test may be negative when you do have a polyp or cancer. 4  These tests may miss polyps and some cancers. An abnormal FIT/iFOBT or FOBT test means that there was some blood in your stool at the time of the test. An abnormal sDNA test means that some abnormal cells were found. Abnormal test results are called positive.
A fecal occult blood test checks a stool sample for blood that can't be seen with the naked eye. Blood in the stool is a sign of bleeding in the digestive tract. This could indicate cancer, polyps, hemorrhoids, diverticulosis, or inflammatory bowel disease, also called colitis. A fecal occult blood test uses chemicals to find out if there is blood in a sample of feces. If your test is negative, your result is normal. If your test is positive, you had blood from your digestive tract in your stool sample.
A fecal occult blood test checks a stool sample for blood that can't be seen with the naked eye. Blood in the stool is a sign of bleeding in the digestive tract. This could indicate cancer, polyps, hemorrhoids, diverticulosis, or inflammatory bowel disease, also called colitis. A positive result on a fecal occult blood test doesn't mean you have cancer. Other health conditions, such as ulcers or hemorrhoids, can cause a positive test result. Doctors will do more tests determine the cause.
The fecal occult blood test (FOBT) is a lab test used to check stool samples for hidden (occult) blood. Occult blood in the stool may indicate colon cancer or polyps in the colon or rectum — though not all cancers or polyps bleed. 