1 The Common Goldeneye is the only duck in North America known to derive benefits from lake acidification. 2  Many acid-tolerant insects provide plentiful prey, and most fish cannot live in these environments, thus reducing competition. CONSERVATION STATUS. The Common Goldeneye is a medium-sized sea-duck native to the lakes and rivers of Canada, the northern United States, Scandinavia and Russia. During winter months, they will migrate to protected coastal waters or open inland water
The Common Goldeneye is almost exclusively a boreal breeder. In North America, its breeding range extends from west-central Alaska across the Canadian forests and prairies to the Maritimes and south to the northern tier of states. As mentioned above, this duck is a cavity nester. 
The male Common Goldeneye has a dark iridescent-green head that looks black when not in the sun. He also has a prominent round or oval white spot on each side of his face at the base of his black bill. His belly and flanks are white, and his rump is black. His back is mostly white with black bars. The female Common Goldeneye has a gray body, brown head, and yellow eyes. This bird can be very difficult to distinguish from a female Barrow's Goldeneye. The bill of the Common Goldeneye is mostly black with a yellow tip, while that of the Barrow's is mostly yellow
Females have a chestnut brown head, a gray body and a white “collar” around the neck. The goldeneye's head is large and rounded, with golden yellow eyes and a black bill. This duck grows 15 to 20 inches in length with a wingspan of about 31 inches; males are slightly larger than females. Named for its golden yellow eyes, the goldeneye is found throughout the Bay region in winter. The common goldeneye is an active diving duck that can be identified by its golden yellow eyes and white, rounded face patches. It visits the open waters of the Chesapeake Bay and its rivers from late autumn through spring
Approximately 188,300 common goldeneyes were killed annually by duck hunters in North America during the 1970s, representing slightly less than 4% of the total waterfowl killed in Canada during that period, and less than 1% of the total waterfowl killed in the US. The incubation period ranges from 28 to 32 days. The female does all the incubating and is abandoned by the male about 1 to 2 weeks into incubation. The young remain in the nest for about 24–36 hours.
The common goldeneye (Bucephala clangula) is a medium-sized sea duck of the genus Bucephala, the goldeneyes. Their closest relative is the similar Barrow's goldeneye. The incubation period ranges from 28 to 32 days. The female does all the incubating and is abandoned by the male about 1 to 2 weeks into incubation. The young remain in the nest for about 24–36 hours.
How long do they live? Males can live to 11 years and females to 12 years, one common goldeneye lived to 15 years. Hunting, predation, and diseases are the leading causes of death in adults. Many hatchlings die within their first few weeks of life from predators and from being exposed to cold, wet weather. During the winter, non-breeding season, common goldeneyes are found mainly in coastal waters and large, interior lakes and rivers. They prefer areas with shallow water and sandy, gravel, or rocky substrates. They seem to prefer slow-flowing water. 1  These animals are found in the following types of habitat. 2  temperate.