Point State Park is at the meeting place of rivers, which is called a confluence. The Monongahela River, which originates in Fairmont, West Virginia, flows northward over 128 miles to Pittsburgh and drains southwestern Pennsylvania and parts of West Virginia, Maryland and Virginia. The Great Allegheny Passage is a part of the Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail, which is a diverse network of trails and routes running between Point State Park in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Point Lookout in Maryland. The Fort Pitt Museum is an official National Park Service Passport stamp location for the trail.
Point State Park, located at the confluence of three rivers, is at the tip of Pittsburgh’s “Golden Triangle.” The park commemorates and preserves the strategic and historic heritage of the area during the French and Indian War (1754 - 1763). The Great Allegheny Passage is a part of the Potomac Heritage National Scenic Trail, which is a diverse network of trails and routes running between Point State Park in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Point Lookout in Maryland. The Fort Pitt Museum is an official National Park Service Passport stamp location for the trail.
Satellite view showing Pittsburgh, second largest city in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania, USA. The city is located at the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers, where they merge to form the Ohio river. Pittsburgh is the principal cultural and economic center in the eastern Ohio River Valley. Just zoom in to see Pittsburgh Downtown area. To find a location use the form below. To view just the map, click on the Map button. Pittsburgh Skyline at the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers.
Point State Park is located right at the tip of downtown Pittsburgh, at the point where the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers meet to form the Ohio. 
Located in the south-eastern part of Pennsylvania and north-east part of the United States, Pittsburgh is one of the most industrialized cities of the United States. However, the trend gradually changing and now the economy of the city is largely depends upon technology, healthcare, education and some other financial services. Likewise, the city has grown with plenty of industrial sites along with various offices buildings, shopping complex, and housings.
The City of Pittsburgh is located in the state of Pennsylvania. 
Share |. US Map showing Location Map of Pittsburgh in Pennsylvania. The economic centre of the region, Pittsburgh has surprisingly 151 high-rise buildings and 446 bridges; because of hundreds of bridges, the city is also known as 'the City of Bridges'. However, the trend gradually changing and now the economy of the city is largely depends upon technology, healthcare, education and some other financial services. Likewise, the city has grown with plenty of industrial sites along with various offices buildings, shopping complex, and housings.
detailed map of Pittsburgh and near places. Welcome to the Pittsburgh google satellite map! This place is situated in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, United States, its geographical coordinates are 40° 26' 26 North, 79° 59' 46. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Pittsburgh. See Pittsburgh photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Pittsburgh in United States. Pittsburgh hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
The University of Pittsburgh (commonly referred to as Pitt) is a state-related research university located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 1787 after the American Revolutionary War, it was founded on the edge of the American frontier as the Pittsburgh Academy. The university is composed of 17 undergraduate and graduate schools and colleges located at its urban Pittsburgh campus, home to the university's central administration and 28,766 undergraduate, graduate, and professional students.