Visit Sanibel Island Hotels & Resorts for a complete list of Chamber of Commerce resort, hotel & vacation rental accommodation members with the amenities and location that are right for you. Choose from beachfront, near beach or bayside hotels, resorts, small inns & cottages, vacation condo & home rentals and more. The Sanibel Island and Captiva Island Chamber is the official source for information for tourists such as hotels and resorts, vacation condo rentals, restaurants, shopping, real estate and local events for tourists and locals.
Captiva is a census-designated place in Lee County, Florida, United States. It is located on Captiva Island. As of the 2000 census, the CDP had a total year-round population of 379. It is part of the Cape Coral – Fort Myers Metropolitan Statistical Area. Captiva's many large estates, condominiums, and businesses have recovered from the serious damage due to 2004's Hurricane Charley. There is a toll to use the causeway that goes from Fort Myers to Sanibel Island. Captiva is accessed by a small bridge that crosses Blind Pass from Sanibel Island
Tornado activity: Sanibel Island-area historical tornado activity is below Florida state average. It is 39% smaller than the overall U.S. average. On 6/18/1972, a category F2 (max. wind speeds 113-157 mph) tornado 2.2 miles away from the Sanibel Island place center caused between $5000 and $50,000 in damages. Colleges/universities with over 2000 students nearest to Sanibel Island: 1  Edison State College (about 16 miles; Fort Myers, FL; Full-time enrollment: 10,649). 2  Florida Gulf Coast University (about 22 miles; Fort Myers, FL; FT enrollment: 11,165).
Sanibel Island: Amazing sunset on Sanibel beach. 1  Sanibel Island: The lighthouse at Sanibel Island, Florida. Colleges/universities with over 2000 students nearest to Sanibel Island: 1  Edison State College (about 16 miles; Fort Myers, FL; Full-time enrollment: 10,649). 2  Florida Gulf Coast University (about 22 miles; Fort Myers, FL; FT enrollment: 11,165).
Sanibel Island & Captiva – Location: Our islands are located west of Fort Myers, Florida. Fort Myers is located just north of Naples & south of Tampa with over 15 miles of beautiful, Florida beaches. Click here for a map showing our Chamber of Commerce location and directions. Discover paradise for yourself. The Sanibel Island and Captiva Island Chamber is the official source for information for tourists such as hotels and resorts, vacation condo rentals, restaurants, shopping, real estate and local events for tourists and locals.
Sanibel is a city in Lee County, Florida, United States, on Sanibel Island. The population was 6,469 at the 2010 census, with an estimated 2012 population of 6,741. It is part of the Cape Coral – Fort Myers Metropolitan Statistical Area. Thanks to easy causeway access, Sanibel is a popular tourist destination known for its shell beaches and wildlife refuges. More than half of the island is made up of wildlife refuges, the largest being J.N. Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge.
The city is on Gulf coast of Southwest Florida, and is linked to the mainland by the Sanibel Causeway. A short bridge over Blind Pass links Sanibel to the unincorporated town of Captiva on Captiva Island. More than half of the two islands are preserved in its natural state as wildlife refuges. Thanks to easy causeway access, Sanibel is a popular tourist destination known for its shell beaches and wildlife refuges. More than half of the island is made up of wildlife refuges, the largest being J.N. Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge.
Adventures soar at our resort near Sanibel Island. Soak up the sun in style at Sanibel Harbour Marriott Resort & Spa. Set upon Punta Rassa, an 85-acre peninsula where the Caloosahatchee River meets the Gulf of Mexico, our resort near Sanibel Island offers a gateway into the wide open gulf and the islands beyond.