The seven wastes originated in Japan, where waste is known as “muda.. The seven wastes is a tool to further categorize “muda” and was originally developed by Toyota’s Chief Engineer Taiichi Ohno as the core of the Toyota Production System, also known as Lean Manufacturing. While products significantly differ between factories, the typical wastes found in manufacturing environments are quite similar. For each waste, there is a strategy to reduce or eliminate its effect on a company, thereby improving overall performance and quality.
Lean manufacturing or lean production, often simply  lean , is a systematic method for the elimination of waste ( Muda ) within a manufacturing system. The elimination of waste is the goal of lean, and Toyota defined three broad types of waste: muda, muri and mura; it should be noted that for many lean implementations this list shrinks to the first waste type only with reduced corresponding benefits.
1 Doctors seek to eliminate the causes of the epidemic. 2  The body naturally eliminates waste products. 3  The company plans to eliminate more than 2,000 jobs in the coming year. 4  She's trying to eliminate fatty foods from her diet. Examples of ELIMINATE. 1 
Muda (無駄) is a Japanese word meaning futility; uselessness; idleness; superfluity; waste; wastage; wastefulness, and is a key concept in the Toyota Production System (TPS) as one of the three types of deviation from optimal allocation of resources (muda, mura, muri). Muda has been given much greater attention as waste than the other two which means that whilst many Lean practitioners have learned to see muda they fail to see in the same prominence the variation of mura (unevenness) and muri (overburden).
Essentially, lean is centered on making obvious what adds value by reducing everything else. Lean manufacturing is a management philosophy derived mostly from the Toyota Production System (TPS) (hence the term Toyotism is also prevalent) and identified as lean only in the 1990s. The elimination of waste is the goal of lean, and Toyota defined three broad types of waste: muda, muri and mura; it should be noted that for many lean implementations this list shrinks to the first waste type only with reduced corresponding benefits.
Lean software development advocates 7 lean principles, the first of which is Eliminate Waste ‘. While that is harsh, I use it to explore one point. When someone goes and points out waste in a software company or team, you quickly start hitting individuals. The meetings, docs, processes, code, etc are some one’s baby.
To eliminate waste, it is important to understand exactly what waste is and where it exists. While products significantly differ between factories, the typical wastes found in manufacturing environments are quite similar. For each waste, there is a strategy to reduce or eliminate its effect on a company, thereby improving overall performance and quality.
ZERO WASTE is the recycling of all materials back into nature or the marketplace in a manner that protects human health and the environment. 
Full Definition of ELIMINATE. transitive verb. 1. 2. : to expel (as waste) from the living body. 3. : to cause (as an unknown) to disappear by combining two or more mathematical equations. intransitive verb. : to expel waste from the living body. — elim·i·na·tive \-ˈli-mə-ˌnā-tiv\ adjective. Examples of ELIMINATE. 1  Doctors seek to eliminate the causes of the epidemic. 2  The body naturally eliminates waste products. 3  The company plans to eliminate more than 2,000 jobs in the coming year.