Report Abuse. place the egg/eggs in a pan, cover the eggs in cold water, I put in a dash of salt(1/4 teaspoon. Bring eggs to a full boil and remove from burner and place a lid on pan and leave on untouched for 15 minutes. when time is up start running cold water into pan and let it run until water is cold then crack and remove shell. Report Abuse. 10-15 minutes. bring waer to a rolling boil, add the eggs, bring to a boil again, cover and shut the burner off and let sit for 10-15 min.
Bring the water up to a boil, then lower it to a rapid simmer. Add the eggs to the pot, and then begin timing. If you're just cooking one or two eggs, five minutes is perfect for a runny yolk, or cook as long as seven minutes for a more firmly set, but still spoonable, yolk. 
As soon as the water reaches a rapid boil, remove pan from heat and cover egg pan tightly with a lid. Set timer for 17 minutes for large eggs or 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. After 17 or 20 minutes (depending on size of your eggs), remove lid and drain off water from the eggs. Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time.
Different stovetops will produce more heat (and thus boil water faster) than others, so how long you need to cook your eggs might vary. Also, not all pots are the same size or hold the same amount of water. Thus, your cooking time could end up being more than 15 minutes, or it could be less. 1 Let the pot stand untouched for 15 minutes. 2  Remove the boiled eggs from the water and transfer them to a bowl of cold water for 15 minutes to stop the cooking process.
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off. Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more
1 Remove the boiled eggs from the water and transfer them to a bowl of cold water for 15 minutes to stop the cooking process. 2  Then either peel and serve or refrigerate. 1 Let the pot stand untouched for 15 minutes. 2 
Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool.