Endoplasmic Reticulum. Endoplasmic reticulum is a continuous membrane, which is present in both plant cells, animal cells and absent in prokaryotic cells. It is the membrane of network tubules and flattened sacs, which serves a variety of functions within the cell. The space, which is present in the endoplasmic reticulum, is called as the lumen. A diagram of Endoplasmic Reticulum. In plant cell, the endoplasmic reticulum acts as a port for the entry of proteins into the membrane. It also plays a vital role in the biosynthesis and storage of lipids.
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of tubules and flattened sacs that serve a variety of functions in the cell. There are two regions of the ER that differ in both structure and function. One region is called rough ER because it has ribosomes attached to the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. Typically, the smooth ER is a tubule network and the rough ER is a series of flattened sacs. The space inside of the ER is called the lumen. The ER is very extensive extending from the cell membrane through the cytoplasm and forming a continuous connection with the nuclear envelope.
It can be defined as a eukaryotic organelle, which forms a network of tubules, vesicles and cisternae within the cells. There are two regions of the Endoplasmic reticulum, which differ in both structure and function. The space, which is present in the endoplasmic reticulum, is called as the lumen. A diagram of Endoplasmic Reticulum. In plant cell, the endoplasmic reticulum acts as a port for the entry of proteins into the membrane. It also plays a vital role in the biosynthesis and storage of lipids.
Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant), and it serves different functions in each. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum also contains the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
The ER is marked with GFP-HDEL and the timelapse is 15 minutes. In plant cells, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) occurs as a system of membrane tubules and sheets (cisternae) that is distributed throughout the cytoplasm. It forms a network that is continuous with the nuclear envelope [1]. 
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: rough endoplasmic reticulum (rough ER) and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth ER). Both types are present in plant and animal cells. The two types of ER are separate entities and are not joined together. These ions are released from the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. SUMMARY. Organelles called ‘rough endoplasmic reticulum’ and ‘smooth endoplasmic reticulum’ are separate networks of membrane enclosed flattened tubules found in eukaryotic animal and plant cells.
The smooth endoplasmic reticulum is a vast network of membrane-bound vesicles and tubules. It does the following: 1. lipid and steroid hormone synthesis 2. breakdown of lipid- … soluble toxins in liver cells 3. control of calcium release in muscle cell contraction. 5 people found this useful. 
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is especially prominent in cells such as hepatocytes. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
The smooth endoplasmic reticulum is a vast network of membrane-bound vesicles and tubules. It does the following: 1. lipid and steroid hormone synthesis. 2. breakdown of lipid-soluble toxins in liver cells. 3. control of calcium release in muscle cell contraction. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth er) has two main purposes. The first is that it contains enzymes that synthesize lipids. These lipids are vital to the cell membrane, … which, is composed of a lipid bilayer.
The Endoplasmic Reticulum The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a network of flattened sacs and branching tubules that extends throughout the cytoplasm in plant and animal cells. 