Buy 10 or more for $41.25 each. Stock Number: SS50B. These hog rings are designed for use in the Ringer. They are D rings that are 15 gauge with an open ring size of 9/16 in. and a closed ring size of 3/16 in. Loading capadity is 50 rings per strip. Each box holds 50 strips for a total of 2,500 rings. $45.40. Learn More ». Qty. The HRP automatic feed hand plier is an efficient tool for applying hog rings, hanging curtains, fastening cords and ropes (up to 1/2 in.) and attaching fabrics to frames. Inside diameter of completely closed staple is approximately 1/4 in.
Hog rings are made of sturdy metal, allowing them to be bent while maintaining the ring integrity. The ring comes in a U-shaped design. The open end of the ring is placed around the objects or fabric you wish to fasten together. The ring is then bent into a circular shape, thus creating a secure connection. Hog rings are so called for their resemblance to the rings placed into farm hogs' noses to keep them from digging with their snouts. Hog rings can be an easy and convenient method for fastening, especially when working with upholstery and other fabrics.
Hog Ring Pliers. While conventional pliers can be used to bend hog rings, there are also special hog-ring pliers available. Hog ring pliers feature a tong in the center which holds the hog ring in place, allowing for easy installation. Hog rings are so called for their resemblance to the rings placed into farm hogs' noses to keep them from digging with their snouts. Hog rings can be an easy and convenient method for fastening, especially when working with upholstery and other fabrics.
The YARDGARD Galvanized Hog Ring Pliers ease the installation of hog rings to secure tension wire at the bottom of a chain-link fence. Using hog ring pliers frees the other hand to position the tension wire where needed. 1 Tension wire secured with hog rings increases the rigidity at the bottom of the fence to keep anything from pushing through. 2  Specially designed to hold hog rings securely in place. 3  Handle is made of steel. 4  Frees other hand to position the tension wire and chain-link fabric.
Stainless Steel Hog Rings (type 304). Stainless hog rings are used in many industries and in a wide variety of applications, wire cages, fencing, lobster and crab traps, gardening, floral arrangements, netting, insulation blanket, etc. 
D Shaped Hog Rings make you love gardening or repairing. D style hog rings are manufactured by galvanized wire, aluminum alloy wire or stainless steel 304 wire to provide corrosion resistance to weathers and rains. They are sturdy and easy to reinforce wire fence, wire cages, upholstery and gabion baskets & mattress. Copper plated and vinyl coated are supplied on request. 
Chain link hog rings are used for a variety of applications. They are used frequently for securing bottom tension wire to the bottom of chain link fence fabric. They are also used to secure all type of fence signs to the fabric. 
Hog Rings. Use Hog Ring Pliers to tighten these small metal rings (hog rings) around anything that needs binding, gathering, or connecting. Great for connecting wires, backing up small knots. Hog rings are heavy wire loop used to secure spring coils to webbing. Also small steel open ended rings which are clenched to fix materials and pads to spring edges and units.
Hog rings are commonly used to repair upholstery, as they are less likely to tear free than thin nails or staples. Hog rings can be used for a variety of other fabric projects as well, such as shower curtains or costume designs. Other hog ring designs are used for meat packaging, such as on sausage casings. Hog rings are so called for their resemblance to the rings placed into farm hogs' noses to keep them from digging with their snouts. Hog rings can be an easy and convenient method for fastening, especially when working with upholstery and other fabrics.
Hog rings are basically C shaped & D shaped with sharp or blunt points. They are bent into a circular or triangle formation by the hog ring plier in order to fasten two objects together. Thanks for its easy operation, hog rings are broadly used in installation or repair of fencing, wire cages, razor wire, barbed wire, car upholstery, trellis, gardening, rebars and so on. 