1 Tissues – Groups of cells that are similar in appearance and function, for example: 2  Epidermis is the single exterior layer that protects the stems, leaves, flowers, and roots. 3  The outside surface of the epidermis tissue is usually covered with a waxy substance called cutin, which reduces water loss. 1 Phloem tissue conducts food and metabolites from photosynthesis throughout the plant, including down to the roots. 2  Structures (organs) – Groups of tissues working together with a common function, (e.g., roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruits, and seeds) .
1 Parenchyma tissues are made of simple, thin-walled cells. 2  In a carrot, for example, the parenchyma cells become a storage unit called the cortex. 3  In leaves, a layer of parenchyma tissues under the epidermis is active in photosynthesis. 1 Phloem tissue conducts food and metabolites from photosynthesis throughout the plant, including down to the roots. 2  Structures (organs) – Groups of tissues working together with a common function, (e.g., roots, stems, leaves, flowers, fruits, and seeds) .
The veins are the vascular tissue of the leaf and are located in the spongy layer of the mesophyll. The pattern of the veins is called venation. In angiosperms the venation is typically parallel in monocotyledons and forms an interconnecting network in broad-leaved plants. In ferns and most flowering plants, the mesophyll is divided into two layers: 1  An upper palisade layer of vertically elongated cells, one to two cells thick, directly beneath the adaxial epidermis, with intercellular air spaces between them. 2  Beneath the palisade layer is the spongy layer.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant and is the principal lateral appendage of the stem. The leaves and stem together form the shoot. Foliage is a mass noun that refers to leaves collectively. Typically a leaf is a thin, dorsiventrally flattened organ, borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis. In ferns and most flowering plants, the mesophyll is divided into two layers: 1  An upper palisade layer of vertically elongated cells, one to two cells thick, directly beneath the adaxial epidermis, with intercellular air spaces between them. 2  Beneath the palisade layer is the spongy layer.
Similar to the other organs of a plant, a leaf is comprised of three basic tissue systems, including the dermal, vascular, and ground tissue systems. These three motifs are continuous throughout an entire plant, but their properties vary significantly based upon the organ type in which they are located. Ground tissue comprises the bulk of a plant leaf and is generally comprised of a variety of cell types, the predominant of which are parenchyma. Often less specialized than other plant cell types, parenchyma cells are surrounded by thin, flexible primary walls and execute most of the plant s metabolic activities.
Not only is vasculature found in the mesophyll, but also the ground tissue of a leaf. Ground tissue comprises the bulk of a plant leaf and is generally comprised of a variety of cell types, the predominant of which are parenchyma. Often less specialized than other plant cell types, parenchyma cells are surrounded by thin, flexible primary walls and execute most of the plant s metabolic activities.
Leaf Tissue Organization The plant body is divided into several organs: roots, stems, and leaves. The leaves are the primary photosynthetic organs of plants, serving as key sites where energy from light is converted into chemical energy. Ground tissue comprises the bulk of a plant leaf and is generally comprised of a variety of cell types, the predominant of which are parenchyma. Often less specialized than other plant cell types, parenchyma cells are surrounded by thin, flexible primary walls and execute most of the plant s metabolic activities.
The parenchyma cells present in leaves contain chloroplasts, which are the sites of photosynthesis. In Figure 1, the mesophyll is divided into two conspicuously different regions, a characteristic common among the leaves of many dicotyledons. Ground tissue comprises the bulk of a plant leaf and is generally comprised of a variety of cell types, the predominant of which are parenchyma. Often less specialized than other plant cell types, parenchyma cells are surrounded by thin, flexible primary walls and execute most of the plant s metabolic activities.
Parenchyma | Back to Top. A generalized plant cell type, parenchyma cells are alive at maturity. They function in storage, photosynthesis, and as the bulk of ground and vascular tissues. Palisade parenchyma cells are elogated cells located in many leaves just below the epidermal tissue. Spongy mesophyll cells occur below the one or two layers of palisade cells. Ray parenchyma cells occur in wood rays, the structures that transport materials laterally within a woody stem. 
9.1.3 Explain the relationship between the distribution of tissues in the leaf and the functions of these tissues. Upper epidermis-Consists of a single layer of cells found on the upper surface of the leaf. It is covered by a thick waxy cuticle. The main function of the upper epidermis is water conservation. It prevents the loss of water from the upper surface where the light intensity and heat are the greatest. Spongy mesophyll-Made up of loosely packed cells. This tissue is found in the lower half of the leaf (lower surface) and has few chloroplasts. It provides gas exchange (CO 2 uptake and O 2 release) and therefore needs to be close to the stomata found in the lower epidermis.