Storyline. A mother and father and their three teen-age children move to a new home that was the scene of a personal tragedy. The son meets a mysterious neighbor girl and together they experiment with an old radio they find in the attic, that can be used to communicate with the dead. 
Verb. 1. haunt-follow stealthily or recur constantly and spontaneously to; her ex-boyfriend stalked her; the ghost of her mother haunted her. stalk. pursue, follow-follow in or as if in pursuit; The police car pursued the suspected attacker; Her bad deed followed her and haunted her dreams all her life. haunt-haunt like a ghost; pursue; Fear of illness haunts her. obsess, ghost. preoccupy-engage or engross the interest or attention of beforehand or occupy urgently or obsessively; His work preoccupies him; The matter preoccupies her completely--she cannot think of anything else.
placeholder. Haunt the House, (Will Houlihan) falls somewhere between a bedroom whispered heart broken prayer and a brilliant repentant cry in the dark. He consistently writes songs that are simple and personal. 
How to Tell if Your House Is Haunted. Haunted houses are a great place to scare a loved one on a special occasion to get them in your arms, but they are not a great place to settle down your life. Here are a few tips to make sure there are no spooks in your dream home. 
verb. be present at. 1  appear. 2  be a guest. 3  be at. 4  be present. 5  be there. 6  bob up. 7  catch. 8  check in. 9  clock in. 10  come to light. 11  drop in. 12  frequent. 13  go to. 14  haunt. 15  make an appearance. 16  make it. 17  make the scene. 18  pop up. 19  punch in. 20  punch the clock. 21  ring in. 22  show. 23  show up. 24  sit in on. 25  time in. 26  turn up. 27  visit. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: haunt (Noun). A place at which one is regularly found; a hangout. haunt (Noun). A ghost. haunt (Noun). A feeding place for animals. haunt (Verb). To inhabit, or visit frequently (most often used in reference to ghosts). haunt (Verb). 
Examples of HAUNT. 1  Some people believe that the ghost of an old sea captain haunts the beach. 2  If you ignore the problem, it will come back to haunt you. 3  Their failure to plan ahead is now coming back to haunt them. 4  The tune haunted me all day. 
verb. verb. 1  To inhabit, visit, or appear to in the form of a ghost or other supernatural being. 2  To visit often; frequent: haunted the movie theaters. 3  To come to the mind of continually; obsess: a riddle that haunted me all morning. 4  To be continually present in; pervade: the melancholy that haunts the composer's music. verb. A ghosts haunts this castle. A ghosts haunts this castle. To haunt is defined as to appear as a ghost, or to visit or appear often. 1  An example of to haunt is seeing visions of a relative who has passed every time you're in their bedroom