Spatial encoding relies on successively applying magnetic field gradients. First of all, a slice selection gradient (GSS) is used to select the anatomical volume of interest. Within this volume, the position of each point will be encoded vertically and horizontally by applying a phase encoding gradient (GPE), and a frequency-encoding gradient (GFE). 
But if you increase the slice selection gradient strength, the range of frequencies along the patient will increase, and so the frequencies within an RF pulse will correspond with a smaller section of the patient and reduce the slice thickness. Try again. Slice selection method. CORRECT. 0 is the gyromagnetic ratio and G S is the magnitude of the slice selection magnetic field gradient. For example, for a 10 mm slice thickness using a gradient magnetic field strength of 10 mTm -1, the transmitted RF pulse bandwidth would be about 4.3 kHz (using. 0 =42.58 MHz T -1). Slice selection method. IN
When you select a gradient filled object and select the Gradient tool, a gradient annotator appears in the object. You can use the gradient annotator to modify the angle, location, and spread of a linear gradient or the focal point, origin, and spread of a radial gradient. Gradient tool. You use the Gradient tool to add or edit gradients. When you click the Gradient tool in an unselected, nongradient filled object it fills the object with the last used gradient.
Using the options in the Gradient panel or with the Gradient tool, you can specify the number and location of stops, angle in which the colors display, aspect ratio of an elliptical gradient, and the opacity of each color. Gradient panel. Gradient tool. You use the Gradient tool to add or edit gradients. When you click the Gradient tool in an unselected, nongradient filled object it fills the object with the last used gradient.
Slice selection in MRI is the selection of spins in a plane through the object. The principle behind slice selection is explained by the resonance equation. Slice selection is achieved by applying a one-dimensional, linear magnetic field gradient during the period that the RF pulse is applied. The word some was used because some of the frequencies have a B 1 less than that required for a 90 o rotation. As a consequence the selected spins do not actually constitute a slice. A solution to the poor slice profile is to shape the 90 o pulse in the shape of a sinc pulse.
Illustrator provides the following tools for slicing and cutting objects: The Slice tool divides artwork into separate web images.Create slices. The Slice Selection tool (Shift-K) selects web slices. See Select slices. The Eraser tool (Shift-E) erases any area of the object over which you drag. See Erase objects using the Eraser tool. The Scissors tool (C) cuts paths at specified points.
1 You want to excite spins in an xy-plane located at z = -5.0 cm. 2  The resonance frequency at the isocenter is 63.85 MHz and your slice selection gradient is 1 G/cm. 3  Describe in detail the RF pulse which should be used. 4  A sample contains water at two locations, y = 1.0 cm and y = -2.0 cm. The word some was used because some of the frequencies have a B 1 less than that required for a 90 o rotation. As a consequence the selected spins do not actually constitute a slice. A solution to the poor slice profile is to shape the 90 o pulse in the shape of a sinc pulse.
Start a new drawing and select a new foreground color. Using the defaults, just click and drag your cursor across the image. You will see a small cross hair symbol with a line attached to it to show you the angle and the direction of the fill. This is how you draw a gradient. The length and angle that you drag will determine how the gradient looks. Warning: The gradient tool is very handy and kind of fun. It is tempting to get carried away and use it far too much in your designs. This is a common noob thing to do. It will also show the Eraser tool. The other tools (Fill, Gradient and Eraser) get used a lot, so they deserve their own tutorial. These tools are used when you have a large area in an image that needs to have color. You can also review this tutorial with the video at the bottom of the page.
The actual timing diagram for a volume imaging pulse sequence looks like this. There is a volume selection RF pulse and gradient which rotates only those spins in the imaged volume of the object. This combination of pulses is equivalent to a slice selection combination except the slice thickness can be 10 or 20 cm. The timing diagram for an inversion recovery imaging sequence has entries for the RF pulses, the gradients in the magnetic field, and the signal. A slice selective 180 o RF pulse is applied in conjunction with a slice selection gradient.