1 Pat the bacon dry with a clean towel and set it on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Allow the bacon to air-dry in the refrigerator for 6-24 hours. 3  At this point, you can slice it for green bacon or you can smoke or roast the whole belly. 1 Chill bacon well in the refrigerator, then with a long, very sharp knife, slice it thin or thick, as desired. 2  Use hard-to-slice pieces in pots of beans or soup. 3  Wrap your finished bacon in parchment paper and store.
1 In a glass dish, use your very clean hands to slather the meat all over with the wet ingredients (if using) until thoroughly coated everywhere. 2  Place one half of the dry cure mixture in the bottom of the glass dish. 3  Place the wet pork belly into the dish and press it into the salt/sugar mix. 1 Chill bacon well in the refrigerator, then with a long, very sharp knife, slice it thin or thick, as desired. 2  Use hard-to-slice pieces in pots of beans or soup. 3  Wrap your finished bacon in parchment paper and store.
Canadian bacon is made from loin meat and is often called back bacon. It is much leaner, perhaps 10:1 meat to fat, and, because it is thicker, the curing time will be about two weeks instead of one week. In the US, it is called back bacon. Order boneless loin (not tenderloin) if you want to make this. Makin' bacon at home is surprisingly easy and the results are quantum leaps better than the stuff from large commercial producers. Once you have the basic recipe down, you can vary the ingredients to make a flavor profile to suit your taste. It is a simple two-step process: (1) Curing, and (2) smoking.
1 Choose the right pork belly. 2  If you go to the time and trouble of curing and smoking your own bacon, start by procuring a pork belly worthy of your efforts. 3  This means from organic hogs (or hogs raised humanely without hormones or antibiotics). 4  Or from a heritage breed like Berkshire, Duroc, or Kurobuta. 1 The bottom of a pork belly usually comes with skin (rind), which will be tougher than the rest of the bacon. ( 2 It also blocks the absorption of the cure and smoke flavors.) Commercial smokehouses remove it using a slicing machine. 3  At home, you’ll have to work a bit harder.
1 If you are only doing one pork belly, you can make a half or even quarter batch of curing salt. 2  Pour about 1/2 cup of the curing salt onto a large pan and press all sides of the pork belly into the curing salt to coat thoroughly. 3  Rub the salt into all surfaces of the pork and dredge so that it is completely coated. 1 Pour about 1/2 cup of the curing salt onto a large pan and press all sides of the pork belly into the curing salt to coat thoroughly. 2
However, making bacon at home is actually not that hard. Here I will teach you a simple method how to make bacon, how to cure bacon and then bake or smoke it. It can then keep for a while in your fridge or even longer in your freezer. 1 Pour about 1/2 cup of the curing salt onto a large pan and press all sides of the pork belly into the curing salt to coat thoroughly. 2  Rub the salt into all surfaces of the pork and dredge so that it is completely coated.
Curing your own pork belly at home to make bacon is easy! Just follow these simple instructions and you'll be frying up your own bacon in no time! The recipe below is adapted from Michael Ruhlman's recipe from his popular book, Charcuterie. If you don’t have a smoker, you can use your oven (but alas, you will miss out on the smoky flavor that is classic to bacon). Place the pork belly in the smoker. You should have it set to a low smoke setting (200-220 degrees), and smoke the belly for 2 hours. After 2 hours, your pork belly will be almost this delicious looking
1 You don't want to completely cook the meat, just flavor it. 2  Chill bacon well in the refrigerator, then with a long, very sharp knife, slice it thin or thick, as desired. 3  Use hard-to-slice pieces in pots of beans or soup. 4  Wrap your finished bacon in parchment paper and store. 1 Chill bacon well in the refrigerator, then with a long, very sharp knife, slice it thin or thick, as desired. 2  Use hard-to-slice pieces in pots of beans or soup. 3
Bacon is God. To cure your own bacon, plan and shop for ingredients well in advance. You might need to special-order the pork belly from your local butcher or grocery store. You can order curing salt from online retailers such as www.sausagemaker.com; I recommend Insta-Cure #1. In this recipe, I offer three ways to smoke the bacon.