How to Get Rid of an Inferiority Complex. Three Parts: Confronting Your Feelings Changing The Way You Think Making Positive Steps. Anyone in the world, big or small, fat or thin, black or white, can feel somewhat inferior to everyone else at times during their lives. 
Classifications [edit]. Classical Adlerian psychology makes a distinction between primary and secondary inferiority feelings. 1  A primary inferiority feeling is said to be rooted in the young child's original experience of weakness, helplessness and dependency. For other uses, see Inferior. An inferiority complex is a lack of self-worth, a doubt and uncertainty, and feelings of not measuring up to standards. It is often subconscious, and is thought to drive afflicted individuals to overcompensate, resulting either in spectacular achievement or extreme asocial behavior.
Superior inferiority. Check out the How to Boost Self-Esteem article for general tips on making you feel better about being you. Here I want to talk specifically about how we feel compared to other people. An inferiority complex is a general feeling of not being 'up to the mark'. Now, I want to distinguish between knowing and feeling.
Definition of Inferiority Complex. An inferiority complex is the conscious or unconscious feeling that one is not as good as others. Along with concepts such as traits, the unconscious, and self-actualization, in psychology the concept of inferiority complex is used to explain personality. 
How to Avoid Developing an Inferiority Complex. Feeling inferior to others stems from multiple factors that gradually build themselves into a person's whole character. 
theories of personality feelings people adler psychology. A psychological condition that exists when a person's feelings of inadequacy are so intense that daily living is impaired. A psychological condition that exists when a person's feelings of inadequacy are so intense that daily living is impaired. 
Full Definition of INFERIORITY COMPLEX. 1. : an acute sense of personal inferiority often resulting either in timidity or through overcompensation in exaggerated aggressiveness. 2. : a collective sense of cultural, regional, or national inferiority. 
inferiority complex. n. A persistent sense of inadequacy or the tendency to diminish oneself, sometimes resulting in excessively aggressive behavior through overcompensation. atrial complex the P wave of the electrocardiogram, representing electrical activity of the atria. See also ventricular complex. castration complex in psychoanalytic theory, unconscious thoughts and motives stemming from fear of loss of the genitals as punishment for forbidden sexual desires.
inferiority complex. [infir′ē·or′ôr]. itē 1 a personal feeling or sense of being. Inadequate it is largely unconscious and influences attitudes and. behaviors (2 in) psychoanalysis a complex characterized by striving for unrealistic goals motivated by an Unresolved oedipus. complex atrial complex the P wave of the electrocardiogram, representing electrical activity of the atria. See also ventricular complex. castration complex in psychoanalytic theory, unconscious thoughts and motives stemming from fear of loss of the genitals as punishment for forbidden sexual desires.
inferior′ity com`plex. 1. an intense feeling of inferiority, producing a personality characterized either by extreme reticence or, as a result of overcompensation, by extreme aggressiveness. 2. lack of self-esteem or self-confidence. Noun. 1. inferiority complex-a sense of personal inferiority arising from conflict between the desire to be noticed and the fear of being humiliated. complex - (psychoanalysis) a combination of emotions and impulses that have been rejected from awareness but still influence a person's behavior.