Among them are algae and protozoa. Algae and protozoa belong to the Protista kingdom. Actually, there are four other kingdoms in which all organisms are grouped into. The other four kingdoms are: Monera, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia. Protozoans and some algae species are able to eat food. And lastly, most algae and some protozoans are able to do the process of photosynthesis. Algae come in different colors, shapes, and sizes. Most algae look green in color and slimy. You can find algae near bodies of water or other humid places
The protist kingdom includes protozoa and algae. (Two groups of fungi with similar characteristics to protozoa, myxomycetes and oomycetes, have been classified as protists.). Unicellular protozoa and algae are unicellular eukaryotes. Pluricellular algae are also eukaryotes of simple structure. Protists are believed to be the phylogenetic ancestors of the living organisms of the other eukaryotic kingdoms (fungi, animals and plants). 1  Protists Review-Image Diversity: protozoa algae.
Answers. Best Answer: Classification Algal protists and protozoans are both classified under the Protista kingdom in the Eukarya domain. This means they are both unicellular, meaning these organisms consist of only one cell. Algal protists are plant-like in that they use photosynthesis to turn light from the sun into energy. Protozoans are more animal-like by ingesting food through their membranes. There are a variety of protozoans, and they eat in a variety of ways.
Nutrition One of the primary differences between algal protists and protozoans is the way they ingest food. Algal protists are plant-like in that they use photosynthesis to turn light from the sun into energy. Protozoans are more animal-like by ingesting food through their membranes. There are a variety of protozoans, and they eat in a variety of ways.
Algae can either be unicellular or multicellular. Seaweeds are examples of multicellular algae. On the other hand, protozoans are unicellular, and they are more animal-like. People describe protozoa as a blob without a definite shape since they lack a cell wall. Protozoans and some algae species are able to eat food. And lastly, most algae and some protozoans are able to do the process of photosynthesis. Algae come in different colors, shapes, and sizes. Most algae look green in color and slimy. You can find algae near bodies of water or other humid places
Both algal protists and protozoans, as well as other members of the Protista kingdom, have a simple organization. There is significant diversity within the protist and protozoan groupings, mostly in regard to nutrition, how they move about in their environment, their membranes and life cycles. Algal protists are plant-like in that they use photosynthesis to turn light from the sun into energy. Protozoans are more animal-like by ingesting food through their membranes. There are a variety of protozoans, and they eat in a variety of ways.
Algae and protozoans belong to the same kingdom, Protista, which is the kingdom that is used for many organisms that do not fit neatly into another category. Protists include algae, protozoa and slime molds. The major difference between algae and protozoa is that algae are able to make their own food, as plants do, while protozoa ingest other organisms or organic molecules, as animals do. In scientific terms, algae are autotrophs and protozoa are heterotrophs.. Difference Between Protozoans & Algae. In many ways, protozoa and algae are similar. In biological terms,... 1  Characteristics of Protozoa & Algae.
Protozoa, fungi and algae are eukaryotes, that is, their DNA is packed into a nucleus. Protozoa are unicelled and paraphyletic. Fungi are a kingdom on their own, can be unicelled or multicelled, they're always heterotrophic organisms, unlike most algae, but can be symbionts, parasits or saprobes. 
Best Answer: Biology is often stranger and more diverse than the language we use to describe it. Neither protozoa or algae are clearly defined groups like Animals, or mammals.. Both groups are very diverse. Euglena are classified as flagellates, and the flagellates are normally considered protozoans. Most people also consider Euglena to be a species of algae. Lets assume that you are talking about those algae that are in the protist kingdom