The per-mile rate you can deduct for business mileage is going up a cent and a half in 2015. For 2014 work-related driving and the returns you'll file by next April 15, the rate is 56 cents per mile. On Jan. 1, 2015, that rate goes to 57.5 cents per mile. The business mileage rate is just one vehicular adjustment made in connection with current inflation. The IRS also has announced changes in 2015 to the standard mileage deduction rate that can be claimed for moving and medical travel.
If you are claiming deductions for vehicle depreciation, then the standard mileage rate must be reduced by the depreciation component (23 cents per mile for 2010). Actual Car Costs: The option of calculating the actual cost of using your vehicle rather than using the standard mileage rates remains. The optional standard tax deductible IRS mileage rates for the use of your car, van, pickup truck, or panel truck during 2013 are: 1  56.5 cents per mile driven for business purposes. 2  24 cents per mile driven for medical or moving purposes.
NEW YORK (MainStreet) — The Internal Revenue Service has issued the 2015 optional standard mileage allowance rates used to claim a tax deduction for driving an automobile for business, charitable, medical or moving purposes. Beginning on January 1, 2015, the standard mileage rates for the use of a car will be: 1  57.5 cents per mile for business miles, up 1.5 cents from 2014. 2  23 cents per mile for medical or moving miles, down 0.5 cents from 2014. 3  14 cents per mile driven in volunteer service of charitable organization, unchanged. 
The Mileage Tax Deduction. The Mileage Tax Deduction is a credit made for the 21st century. The amount of road travel we engage in for the most common aspects of our life is either wonderful or absurd depending on how you view things. You get the choice of claiming the actual vehicle expenses deduction or taking the mileage rate. Obviously you want the one that affords you the biggest advantage. The actual expense deduction includes: 1  Gas.
Additional Vehicle Use Deductions: In addition to the standard mileage rates, you may deduct the costs of tolls and parking while using your vehicle for one of the approved purposes. These are separate deductions. However, if you have claimed vehicle depreciation, you may not deduct tolls and parking fees. The optional standard tax deductible IRS mileage rates for the use of your car, van, pickup truck, or panel truck during 2013 are: 1  56.5 cents per mile driven for business purposes. 2  24 cents per mile driven for medical or moving purposes.
Taxes » Tax Deductions » Mileage Deduction Amounts. Americans love automobiles. The IRS even shares the national motoring madness by annually adjusting most of the standard mileage rates taxpayers can use to claim certain types of road trips as tax deductions.
Form 2106 allows workers to report total vehicle expenses, choose a mileage deduction type and calculate depreciation. Self-employed taxpayers claim mileage deductions on Schedule C, Profit or Loss from Business. The percentage allowed is determined by dividing the miles driven for business by the total miles driven on the vehicle during a tax year. If 33 percent of the miles were business oriented, then 33 percent of the vehicle costs are deductible.
Your deduction is based on your business use percentage, i.e., your business miles as a percentage of your total miles. The second method is to multiply the miles you drive for work by the Internal Revenue Service standard mileage rate, which changes every year (and sometimes twice a year). For example, if your only miscellaneous deduction is $5,000 of mileage expenses in a year you report an AGI of $50,000, you must reduce the deduction by $1,000 ($50,000 times two percent). The detail of your expenses will be shown on either Form 2106 or 2106-EZ, which is used to report employee business expenses
23 cents. 23 cents. 14 cents. While the reimbursement rate for business mileage, as well as qualified moving and medical travel, is adjusted annually for inflation, the rate allowed for miles driven in aid of a charity is set by statute at 14 cents per mile. Americans love automobiles. The IRS even shares the national motoring madness by annually adjusting most of the standard mileage rates taxpayers can use to claim certain types of road trips as tax deductions.