There are a few things you should avoid doing if you want to tell your crush that you like him and get the best results. Here are some things you should avoid if you want to look confident and mature: 1  Don't have your friends tell him or her how you feel. 2  If you want to look mature, you have to do it yourself. Sure, you should look good when you plan to tell your crush how you feel. Just don't dress up to the nines if you normally rock a casual look, or put on a brand-new outfit if you're always seen in cozy clothes. You don't want your crush to think that you're trying too hard to send him the right message.
3. Call him. Another way to tell him that you like him is to give him a call and simply to tell him how you feel. Yeah, this technically means telling him how you feel with words, but if you find that telling him without words hasn’t been working for you, then it may be time to come out with it. 1. Make eye contact—and then break it. One way to let your crush see that you like him without opening your mouth is to simply lock eyes with him. Make eye contact for just one or two seconds—just enough time to show you’re paying attention—and then look down at the floor or just avert your gaze.
Turn your body toward your crush. Another way to let your crush know you like him is through some simple open body language. If your body is “open,” that means that you’re standing tall, face your crush, turn your feet and shoulders toward him, and keep your arms out instead of crossed over your chest. 1. Make eye contact—and then break it. One way to let your crush see that you like him without opening your mouth is to simply lock eyes with him. Make eye contact for just one or two seconds—just enough time to show you’re paying attention—and then look down at the floor or just avert your gaze.
Introduce your crush to your friends. But make sure your crush doesn't like your friends more than you. (If you have REALLY awesome friends, think about hiding them for awhile.) Similarly, make sure your friends don't like your crush more than they like YOU. You don't want to kick yourself out of the picture, here. Give him/her your own nickname. Yeah, forget that stuff about saying her name. Say the special nickname that you created just for them. Like, if her name is Lauren Passell, give them a rap name like L Pizzy, or call them Passie Pass, or just simply LP.
1 When you tell your crush, look him in the eye and relax your body. 2  Don't stand too close to him or look at the floor, or you'll look either too eager or too withdrawn. 3  Use your crush's name when you tell him or her how you feel. Sure, you should look good when you plan to tell your crush how you feel. Just don't dress up to the nines if you normally rock a casual look, or put on a brand-new outfit if you're always seen in cozy clothes. You don't want your crush to think that you're trying too hard to send him the right message.
If you want to tell your crush you like him, then you should show him that you’re comfortable being yourself around him. If you find yourself bragging, talking about how great you are, telling exaggerated stories for laughs, or just doing something that doesn’t feel like you, then this won’t win your crush over. 1. Make eye contact—and then break it. One way to let your crush see that you like him without opening your mouth is to simply lock eyes with him. Make eye contact for just one or two seconds—just enough time to show you’re paying attention—and then look down at the floor or just avert your gaze.
Do you want to tell your crush you like them, but don't know how? This quiz will tell you the perfect way to do it. You get dared to tell your crush you think they're cute. 1  Do it, but compliment they're shoes instead. 2  Tell tell them they're hair really looks good today. 3  Have been waiting for a chance like this for a while now! 4  Of course you tell him! 5  Chicken out.
2. Tell your crush how you feel with a cute note. Putting a cute note in your crush's locker, textbook, or backpack that tells him that you like him can be a nice way to tell him how you really feel. Just write something like,  Hi, Mark, I just wanted to tell you that I like you. Sure, you should look good when you plan to tell your crush how you feel. Just don't dress up to the nines if you normally rock a casual look, or put on a brand-new outfit if you're always seen in cozy clothes. You don't want your crush to think that you're trying too hard to send him the right message.
4. Ask him questions to show that you care. One way to tell your crush you like him is to show a genuine interest in him. To do this, you should simply ask him questions about his life and make an effort to really listen to the answers instead of planning your next move. 1. Make eye contact—and then break it. One way to let your crush see that you like him without opening your mouth is to simply lock eyes with him. Make eye contact for just one or two seconds—just enough time to show you’re paying attention—and then look down at the floor or just avert your gaze.