RE: what is the process of a white blood cell destroying bacteria called? is there a name for the process of white blood cells fighting disease and if so what is it??? Which are a group of immune cells specialized in finding and eating bacteria, viruses, and dead or injured body cells. There are three main types-the granulocyte, the macrophage, and the dendritic cell. Hope this helps.
The white blood cell is attracted to the bacteria because proteins called antibodies have marked the bacteria for destruction. These antibodies are specific for disease-causing bacteria and viruses. When the white blood cell catches the bacteria it goes about eating it in a process called phagocytosis. David Rogers, Vanderbilt UniversityDeath is an Outrage!. The original video. It was made in the 1950s by David Rogers at Vanderbilt University. Follow Business Insider: Your body uses white blood cells to fight off the bacteria and viruses that invade your body and make you sick. In the gif below you can see a white blood cell called a neutrophil chase down a Staphylococcus aureus bacterium. The circular cells that the white blood cell is moving through are red blood cells
bacteria enter white blood cells through phagocytosis. As a part of the immune system, white blood cells (leukocytes) ingest foreign matter to destroy it. There are seven diff … erent types of leukocytes, but the primary attackers of bacteria are the macrophages and the neutrophils. White blood cells are blood cells that engulf and digest bacteria  and fungi. Basophil is a white blood cell with granules that stain  with basic dyes.
Lastet opp 23. jan. 2012. The white blood cells are an important part of our body's immune system. Neutrophils are a special group of white blood cells that play an extremely important role in protecting the body against infections. Mature neutrophils do not divide. Proev prøv igjen. Senere lastet opp. 23. jan. 2012 the white blood cells are an important part of our'body s immune. System neutrophils are a special group of white blood cells that play an extremely important role in protecting the body against. Infections mature neutrophils do not. divide
White blood cells eat bacteria because without white blood cells bacteria would be in our body all the time and we would always be poorly. White blood cells are blood cells that engulf and digest bacteria  and fungi. Basophil is a white blood cell with granules that stain  with basic dyes.
Leukocytes (white blood cells) act like independent, single-celled organisms and are the second arm of the innate immune system. The innate leukocytes include the phagocytes (macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells), mast cells, eosinophils, basophils, and natural killer cells. Which are a group of immune cells specialized in finding and eating bacteria, viruses, and dead or injured body cells. There are three main types-the granulocyte, the macrophage, and the dendritic cell. Hope this helps.
White blood cells = Phagocytes. Which are a group of immune cells specialized in finding and eating bacteria, viruses, and dead or injured body cells. There are three main types-the granulocyte, the macrophage, and the dendritic cell. Hope this helps.
Macrophages develop from white blood cells called monocytes. Monocytes are the largest type of white blood cell. They have a large, single nucleus that is often kidney-shaped. Monocytes are produced in bone marrow and circulate in the blood anywhere from one to three days. 
White Blood Cells. White blood cells (WBCs), or leukocytes, are a part of the immune system and help our bodies fight infection. They circulate in the blood so that they can be transported to an area where an infection has developed. In a normal adult body there are 4,000 to 10,000 (average 7,000) WBCs per microliter of blood.