The retail giant, which for years has been the target of widespread criticism over its low pay structure and increasing reliance on part-time workers, said that all of its United States workers would earn at least $9 an hour by April and at least $10 by next February. Walmart says its part-time workers already earn an average wage of $9.48, and full-timers an average of $12.85. Walmart lags behind major retailers like Gap and Ikea, which have moved recently to set hourly wages at or above $9, to try to reduce turnover and attract more workers.
I worked at Wal Mart for two years between the ages of 18-20(this is nearly 10 years ago now). I got the job because my mother had been laid off and we needed an income in the house. I started part time as a cashier with my hours stated at time of hire 5:30-11:30, which was when the store closed at that time. 
How much do Walmart employees get paid in the US?   * In 2001, sales associates, the most common job in Wal-Mart, earned on average $8.23 an hour for annual wages of $13,861. R.J.: My brother works with a door greeter that has been with the company (In Florida) for about 40 years. He makes over $50 an hour, no that wasn't a typo. They've now changed the policy so that the job 'tops out' at around $24 an hour.
I make $10 per hour working third shift. R.J.: My brother works with a door greeter that has been with the company (In Florida) for about 40 years. He makes over $50 an hour, no that wasn't a typo. They've now changed the policy so that the job 'tops out' at around $24 an hour.
(United States). An average Cashier in the United States can expect to take home roughly $8.59 per hour. The income range spans the entire spectrum between $7.35 per hour and $11.09. The specific employer is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by career length and location. Men are in the minority of survey respondents, with female Cashiers making up 76 percent. Experience does not seem to be a strong driver of pay increase in this role. Salaries for the relatively untried average out to around $18K, but survey participants with five to 10 years of experience earn a significantly higher median of $19K.
Dressing room assistants help customers with personal items and potential purchases, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. In May 2012, wages ranged from $7.94 per hour to $14.41 per hour. Dressing room assistants often work in department stores or other retail establishments. The top-paying states for this occupation include Washington, D.C., Hawaii, Rhode Island, Connecticut and New York
In Jobs for Teens. How much Walmart employees get paid varies with the type of  position they hold and how long they have worked for Walmart. On  average, a new employee earns about 7 dollars … to about 18 dollars  per hour. R.J.: My brother works with a door greeter that has been with the company (In Florida) for about 40 years. He makes over $50 an hour, no that wasn't a typo. They've now changed the policy so that the job 'tops out' at around $24 an hour.
How much do stock clerks make? The average hourly pay for a stock clerk is usually around $10 per hour. This varies by industry, with warehouse and storage clerks making the most ($13.34 per hour) and department stores having the lowest hourly wage (around $9.29 per hour). 1 Stock clerks average around $10 per hour. 2  Jobs as a stock clerk offer decent job security. 3  You'll need to be hard-working, physically fit and an independent worker.
Average Marshalls hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.35 per hour for Sales Representative to $16.64 per hour for Loss Prevention Manager. The average Marshalls salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Backroom Associate to $85,000 per year for Store Manager. 