Detrusor muscle [edit]. The detrusor muscle is a layer of the urinary bladder wall made of smooth muscle fibers arranged in spiral, longitudinal, and circular bundles. A hollow muscular, and distensible (or elastic) organ, the bladder sits on the pelvic floor. Urine enters the bladder via the ureters and exits via the urethra. There is no exact measurement for the volume of the human bladder, but different sources mention 500 mL (~17 oz) to 1000 mL (~34 oz).
The wall of the Urinary Bladder consists of three layers: 1  The Mucosa layer. 2  The Detrusor Muscle itself made up by three layers. 3  The Adventitia and the visceral peritoneum. When the urinary bladder is stretched the parasympathetic nervous system is signaled to contract the detrusor muscle and the urine is squeezed out through the urethra canal. For this to work both the autonomically controlled sphincter muscle and the voluntarily controlled sphincter muscle must be relaxed.
1 The muscularis is commonly referred to as the detrusor muscle and contracts during urination to expel urine from the body. 2  The muscularis also forms the internal urethral sphincter, a ring of muscle that surrounds the urethral opening and holds urine in the urinary bladde. Urine produced by the kidneys flows through the ureters to the urinary bladder, where is it stored before passing into the urethra and exiting the body.
Overactive Bladder Causes. The urinary bladder is comprised of nerves, muscles, and connective tissue. The most important muscle in the bladder is the detrusor muscle. In normal circumstances, when the bladder fills with urine, it can stretch to hold the urine. When the volume in the bladder reaches close to 300 cc, the stretch in the wall of the bladder can trigger a nerve response to initiate urination (micturition)
When it is time to urinate, the detrusor muscle contracts to allow the urine to come out. If the detrusor muscle is not working normally, urination will be impacted. If the detrusor muscle is overactive, it tries to squeeze the urine out even when you are not ready to urinate. This can feel like pain in the bladder area. This is sometimes called overactive bladder or overactive detrusor muscle. If the detrusor muscle does not squeeze or is overstretched, it can be difficult to get urine out even when you are trying
1 The visceral muscles of the muscularis layer surround the submucosa and provide the urinary bladder with its ability to expand and contract. 2  The muscularis is commonly referred to as the detrusor muscle and contracts during urination to expel urine from the body. Urine produced by the kidneys flows through the ureters to the urinary bladder, where is it stored before passing into the urethra and exiting the body.
The Detrosor Muscle of the Urinary Bladder. The Detrusor Muscle is a layer of the Urinary Bladder wall which is itself made up by three layers. The Detrusor Muscle is smooth muscle fibers arranged in spiral and circuar bundles. When the urinary bladder is stretched the parasympathetic nervous system is signaled to contract the detrusor muscle and the urine is squeezed out through the urethra canal. For this to work both the autonomically controlled sphincter muscle and the voluntarily controlled sphincter muscle must be relaxed.
The detrusor urinae muscle, also detrusor muscle, muscularis propria of the urinary bladder and (less precise) muscularis propria, is smooth muscle found in the wall of the bladder. The detrusor muscle remains relaxed to allow the bladder to store urine, and contracts during urination to release urine. The fibers of the detrusor muscle arise from the posterior surface of the body of the pubis in both sexes (musculi pubovesicales), and in the male from the adjacent part of the prostate and its capsule.
The detrusor muscle is what most people call the bladder.. When the bladder is filling with urine, the detrusor muscle remains relaxed and stretches to hold the urine. This is sometimes called overactive bladder or overactive detrusor muscle. If the detrusor muscle does not squeeze or is overstretched, it can be difficult to get urine out even when you are trying to urinate.