protamine sulfate. [prō′təmēn]. a heparin antagonist derived from fish sperm. indication It is prescribed to diminish or reverse the anticoagulant effect of heparin, particularly in cases of heparin overdosage. 
Protamine (protamines) s have low molecular weight, are rich in arginine, and are strongly basic. Protamine sulfate (protamine (protamines) s) occurs as fine white or off-white amorphous or crystalline powder. It is sparingly soluble in water. The pH is between 6 and 7. The cationic hydrogenated protamine at a pH of 6.8 to 7.1 reacts with anionic heparin at a pH of 5.0 to 7.5 to form an inactive complex. Protamine sulfate 10 mg, sodium chloride 9 mg and Water for Injection q.s. Sulfuric acid and/or dibasic sodium phosphate (heptahydrate) may have been added for pH adjustment.
Protamine sulfate is used as an antidote to heparin overdosage. protamine paracoagulation. used to examine a blood sample for fibrin monomers and fibrinogen-split products. protamine zinc insulin (PZI). see insulin. 
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Protamine is an injectable medication that is derived from fish sperm. It is used to reverse the effects of the blood-thinning drug heparin when reversal is desired. On its own, protamine acts as a weak blood thinner (anticoagulant), but when it interacts with heparin, it neutralizes the heparin blood-thinning effect. Protamine is in a class of drugs called heparin antagonists.
Protamine sulfate is usually administered to reverse the large dose of heparin administered during certain surgeries, especially heart surgery. A dose of protamine is given when the patient is off-pump, when extracorporeal circulation and anticoagulation are no longer needed. Protamine was originally isolated from the sperm of salmon and other species of fish but is now produced primarily through recombinant biotechnology.
Protamine sulfate is a drug that reverses the anticoagulant effects of heparin by binding to it. Protamine was originally isolated from the sperm of salmon and other species of fish but is now produced primarily through recombinant biotechnology. It is a highly cationic peptide that binds to either heparin or low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) to form a stable ion pair, which does not have anticoagulant activity
Medical Definition of PROTAMINE. : any of various strongly basic proteins of relatively low molecular weight that are rich in arginine and are found associated especially with DNA in place of histone in the sperm of various animals (as fish). Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about protamine. 
Protamine is used in cardiac surgery, vascular surgery, and interventional radiology procedures to neutralize the anti-clotting effects of heparin. Adverse effects include increased pulmonary artery pressure and decrease peripheral blood pressure, myocardial oxygen consumption, cardiac output, and heart rate. The ratio of protamine 2 to protamine 1 and transition nuclear proteins has been found to change the sperm head shape in various species of Mus, the genus of mice, by altering the expression of protamine 2 via mutations in its promoter region.
Protamine sulfate is administered to counteract the effects of a particular drug known as heparin. It's an anticoagulant like warfarin and dabigatran, but has a different mechanism of action and is used for different purposes. Protamine sulfate is what surgeons use to counteract the effects of heparin in patients undergoing surgery and transfusions. Once produced from the sperm of male salmon and other fish, this drug is now made from recombinant DNA. It cancels out the effect of heparin by binding to it, preventing its anti-clotting action