Preta is often translated into English as  hungry ghost  from the Chinese adaptation. In early sources such as the Petavatthu, they are much more varied. The Sanskrit term preta means departed, deceased, a dead person, from pra-ita, literally gone forth, departed. In Classical Sanskrit, the term refers to the spirit of any dead person, but especially before the obsequial rites are performed, but also more narrowly to a ghost or evil being.
In Hindu mythology, the Pretas are the spirits of dead people that inhabit Preta-Loka, the realm of tortured spirits. These are the spirits that had committed wrongful deeds in a former life and have been committed to the circle of perpetual hunger. By admin. In Hindu mythology, the Pretas are the spirits of dead people that inhabit Preta-Loka, the realm of tortured spirits. These are the spirits that had committed wrongful deeds in a former life and have been committed to the circle of perpetual hunger. Some are said to animate dead bodies and inhabit graveyards.
The Hungry Ghost realm (also known as the Preta realm) is a rebirth based on strong possessiveness and desire which were cultivated in a previous life or lives. The sentient beings in this realm are known as  hungry ghosts . They are constantly extremely hungry and thirsty, but they cannot satisfy these needs. The Asuras are said to experience a much more pleasurable life than humans, but they are plagued by envy for the devas, whom they can see just as animals can perceive humans. The Asura realm is also sometimes referred to as the Ashura realm, Titan realm, Jealous God realm, Demigod realm, or Anti-God realm.
Preta is the Sanskrit name for a type of supernatural being described in some Indian religions as undergoing suffering greater than that of humans, particularly an extreme level of hunger and thirst. The Sanskrit term preta means departed, deceased, a dead person, from pra-ita, literally gone forth, departed. In Classical Sanskrit, the term refers to the spirit of any dead person, but especially before the obsequial rites are performed, but also more narrowly to a ghost or evil being.
Within the desire realm are either five or six domains (Sanskrit: gati, also sometimes translated as realm). In Tibetan Buddhism, there are six domains (Wylie: rigs drug gi skye gnas) and in Theravada Buddhism there are only five, because the domain of the asuras is not regarded as separate from that of the devas. The Asuras are said to experience a much more pleasurable life than humans, but they are plagued by envy for the devas, whom they can see just as animals can perceive humans. The Asura realm is also sometimes referred to as the Ashura realm, Titan realm, Jealous God realm, Demigod realm, or Anti-God realm.
Preta Loka. Apassionate man, whose mind is filled with lower appetites and strong sense-cravings, who has spent his life in much sensual indulgence in this earth-plane, enters the Preta Loka astral world of gross density) after his death. He is unconscious for a short time after eath. He is in a sleepy state. If you do not wish to enter the Preta Loka and undergo the sufferings, learn to be wise. Learn to control the senses. Lead a well-regulated and disciplined life. Do not allow the senses to run riot. Give up gluttony. Do not follow the philosophy of flesh
Pretas. By admin. In Hindu mythology, the Pretas are the spirits of dead people that inhabit Preta-Loka, the realm of tortured spirits. These are the spirits that had committed wrongful deeds in a former life and have been committed to the circle of perpetual hunger. Some are said to animate dead bodies and inhabit graveyards.
The desire realm (Sanskrit: kāmadhātu) is one of the trailokya or three realms (Sanskrit: dhātu, Tibetan: khams) in Buddhist cosmology into which a being wandering in saṃsāra may be reborn. The other two are the form realm, (Sanskrit rūpadhātu) and the formless realm (S. The Asuras are said to experience a much more pleasurable life than humans, but they are plagued by envy for the devas, whom they can see just as animals can perceive humans. The Asura realm is also sometimes referred to as the Ashura realm, Titan realm, Jealous God realm, Demigod realm, or Anti-God realm.
In Hinduism Pretas are very real beings. They are a form, a body consisting only of air and Akaash (Sky or Black matter or space), two of the five elements which constitutes a body on Earth or any other planet i.e. Air, Water, Dark Matter (Space), Fire and Earth. The Sanskrit term preta means departed, deceased, a dead person, from pra-ita, literally gone forth, departed. In Classical Sanskrit, the term refers to the spirit of any dead person, but especially before the obsequial rites are performed, but also more narrowly to a ghost or evil being.