Channel 64 – Thursday July 23rd, 2015 – Resonance AcademyAmira Val Baker Adam Apollo To learn more about our Faculty hosts, click their image to visit their blogs. EPISODE 3 Faculty Hangout: Exploring Modern Physics Hosted by Academy Faculty Amira Val Baker and Adam Apollo Airing LIVE: Thursday, July 23rd, at 11:00 a.m. HST, 2:00 p.m. PST Join Resonance A…. AAA-LuvDown Symbiosis (Dedicated to Harlan & Ania) 2015 - CD LengthThis set was created in honor of the Wedding of Harlan & Ania and the 10 Year Reunion of Symbiosis Festival. It is a rich journey full of beauty, undulating with thick drops of love, deep intimatesoundcloud.com|By adamapollo.
Leland Joseph Lee Adama (callsign  Apollo ) is a fictional character in the television series Battlestar Galactica. He is portrayed by actor Jamie Bamber, and is one of the main characters in the series. Lee is part of the strike team sent by then-Commander Adama to Colonial One to terminate Laura Roslin 's presidency after she encourages Kara Thrace to abscond with a captured Cylon Raider.
Highest Regards, Adam Apollo. Dear beautiful community, I am writing on behalf of our most amazing brother Adam Apollo Amorastreya and his beautiful wife Ka. Adam is a man who gives so much to so many of us. Now in his time of need, it is time for us to step up and help him. Adam is $2000 short of the funds he needs to pay for this luminous couple's honeymoon in Italy.
Mini Bio (1). Adam Apollo was born in Oakland, California. He is founder of several education and technology based companies and organizations, including Access Granted, Inc., Sanctified Solutions, LLC, Visionary Arts Foundation, and Superluminal Systems. As a speaker, Adam Apollo has been featured in events at the White House, United Nations, and at conferences and festivals around the world. In 2005 and 2006, Adam coordinated two Prayer Runs for World Peace with Indigenous elders and youth from around the North American Continent.
Bio:logic Publ:ic. Consistently building alliances, expanding and empowering networks, researching and developing new physics and technology, as well as teaching workshops, speaking at events, healing and creating, Adam Apollo is a multidimensional Earth Guardian dedicated to achieving planetary sustainability. During 2007, Adam primarily focused on helping to forge Campaign 2020, a visionary platform created to help bring together the constituencies and capacities necessary to achieve a sustainable planet by the year 2020.
Adam Apollo is also a martial artist, music producer, DJ, VJ, graphic designer, computer technician, swordsman, and professional massage therapist. He enjoys reading, chess, movies, studying ancient cultures, envisioning the future, and weaving Magic in service of the Source. During 2007, Adam primarily focused on helping to forge Campaign 2020, a visionary platform created to help bring together the constituencies and capacities necessary to achieve a sustainable planet by the year 2020.
I'm currently working on several projects focusing on developing new education systems and models. Back in 2003, I created a company called Access Granted to develop integrative education models. With nearly 10 years of research and testing, the best of these models are ready to roll out on a global scale. 