Welders in Tulsa, Okla. take home an average $18.54 per hour. Job satisfaction for Tulsa Welders is high. Medical benefits are awarded to a fair number, and the greater part earn dental coverage. The figures in this overview were provided by individuals who took PayScale's salary questionnaire. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. In general, experience and pay appear to be strongly linked; those with more experience usually bring in higher incomes. Respondents with less than five years' experience take home $33K on average.
Salary Overview. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the mean hourly salary for welders, cutters, solderers and brazers in May 2012 was $18.46 an hour, or an annual average income of $38,410 (www.bls.gov). According to January 2014 salary data from PayScale.com, welders possessing less than a year of experience had annual earnings of $25,000-$60,000.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Welder I in Oklahoma City, OK that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Welder I in Oklahoma City are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of May 2015. Inspects completed welds to determine structural soundness. Requires a high school diploma or its equivalent. May be required to complete an apprenticeship and/or formal training in area of specialty. May require 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area.
Average Welder salaries for job postings in Oklahoma City, OK are 14% lower than average Welder salaries for job postings nationwide. 
May require 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Has knowledge of commonly-used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job. Works under immediate supervision. Interprets blueprints, specifications, diagrams or schematics to determine appropriate welding process. Inspects completed welds to determine structural soundness. Requires a high school diploma or its equivalent. May be required to complete an apprenticeship and/or formal training in area of specialty.
Within Oklahoma there is a lot of variation in Welder I Salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Oklahoma and surrounding states, click on any one to find Welder I Salaries for that area. Interprets blueprints, specifications, diagrams or schematics to determine appropriate welding process. Inspects completed welds to determine structural soundness. Requires a high school diploma or its equivalent. May be required to complete an apprenticeship and/or formal training in area of specialty.
Professionals in these locations made average salaries of $22,490-$35,620. According to January 2014 salary data from PayScale.com, welders possessing less than a year of experience had annual earnings of $25,000-$60,000. Those with 1-4 years of experience made $21,455-$50,932, while those with 5-9 years of experience made higher salaries of $26,850-$62,40
Welder Salary in Oklahoma City. (United States). The average wage for a Welder in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma is $15.94 per hour. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Tungsten Inert Gas (TIG) Welding, Shielded Metal Arc Welding (SMAW), Plasma Cutting, and Fluxed Core Arc Welding (FCAW). Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 10 years' experience in this career. $11.34 - $24.03. (Median)
The salary for someone with the job title Welder I in Oklahoma City, OK varies depending on a number of factors. Inspects completed welds to determine structural soundness. Requires a high school diploma or its equivalent. May be required to complete an apprenticeship and/or formal training in area of specialty. May require 0-2 years of experience in the field or in a related area.
Average Welder salaries for job postings in Oklahoma are 8% lower than average Welder salaries for job postings nationwide. 