Mineral Makeup. Herring is rich in minerals, providing you with 56 percent of the DV for selenium, 10 percent of the DV for potassium and 26 percent of the DV for phosphorus in each 3-ounce serving. Selenium helps form DNA and acts as an antioxidant to prevent cell damage from free radicals. Calories, Protein and Fat. Each 3-ounce serving of cooked Atlantic herring provides you with 173 calories, 19.6 grams of protein and 9.9 grams of fat, including just 2.2 grams of saturated fat.
Herring are very high in the long-chain Omega-3 fatty acids EPA and DHA. They are a source of vitamin D. Water pollution influences the amount of herring that may be safely consumed. Herrings played a pivotal role in the history of marine fisheries in Europe, and early in the twentieth century their study was fundamental to evolution of fisheries science. These oily fish also have a long history as an important food fish, and are often salted, smoked, or pickled.
A 100-gram portion, or 4 ounces, of herring has 1.7 grams of omega-3s, while the same portion of sardines has 1.4 grams. The recommended adequate intake for men is 1.6 grams daily, while women need 1.1 grams. Macronutrients. The nutritional values of sardines and herrings vary depending on how they’re processed and whether they’re canned in oil or other sauces. Three ounces of pickled herring have 223 calories, sardines packed in oil have 177 calories and you’ll get 157 calories from sardines packed in tomato sauce.
Portion control is very important with high-calorie, high-fat foods such as canned herring. The USDA recommends that calories from fat make up no more than 20 to 35 percent of all your daily calories. The fat in canned herring supplies 311.4 calories, or 15.57 percent of your daily intake of calories. A 100-gram serving of canned herring packed in oil supplies 44.5 grams of protein. The USDA recommends that adults consume 0.8 grams of protein for every kilogram of body weight. This means that a serving of herring satisfies 95 percent of a 130 lb. woman's daily need for protein.
Vitamins B and D. While herring isn't a particularly good source of the B vitamins folate and thiamine, each serving provides 14 percent of the DV for riboflavin, 18 percent of the DV for niacin, 15 percent of the DV for vitamin B-6 and 186 percent of the DV for vitamin B-12. Calories, Protein and Fat. Each 3-ounce serving of cooked Atlantic herring provides you with 173 calories, 19.6 grams of protein and 9.9 grams of fat, including just 2.2 grams of saturated fat.
Possible Health Risks. While the health benefits of pickled herring are considered to outweigh any possible health risks, it is still necessary to highlight possible health problems from pickled herring. For one, a certain way of preparing pickled herring is the culprit in stoking these beliefs of possible health risks. Pickled Herring can be prepared in a number of ways, usually dependent on the type of cuisine that is featuring it. For instance, cuisine from Russia has pickled herring served in such a simple way which sees it cut into small pieces and then drizzled with some sunflower oil and onions.
Sardines and herrings are rich sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Herrings and sardines are so similar that herrings are often canned and labeled as sardines. Both types of fish are good sources of vitamin D and zinc, but sardines are rich in calcium, while herrings only have about one-fourth the amount. Macronutrients. The nutritional values of sardines and herrings vary depending on how they’re processed and whether they’re canned in oil or other sauces. Three ounces of pickled herring have 223 calories, sardines packed in oil have 177 calories and you’ll get 157 calories from sardines packed in tomato sauce.
Fish, herring, Atlantic, pickled is a good source of Vitamin B6, Vitamin E (Alpha-tocopherol), Riboflavin, Calcium and Phosphorus. This means that the food contains 10% or more of your RDI for these nutrients. Carbohydrate Info Label Image. 140g (4.94 oz) grams of Fish, herring, Atlantic, pickled contains 13.496 grams of carbohydrates which is 4% of your recommended daily carbohydrate intake acording to the Food and Drug Administration guidelines for a 2000 calorie diet.
The Nutrition of Pickled Herring. Pickled herring is thought of as a delicacy in many parts of Europe, so much so that pickled herring has found itself as part of the cuisine of Germans, Jews, Scandinavians, Baltic people and Eastern Slavs. Pickled Herring can be prepared in a number of ways, usually dependent on the type of cuisine that is featuring it. For instance, cuisine from Russia has pickled herring served in such a simple way which sees it cut into small pieces and then drizzled with some sunflower oil and onions.
Vitamin A. Herring is rich in vitamin A. With 1,300 IU of vitamin A, a 100-gram serving of smoked herring supplies 43 percent and 56 percent of the recommended daily allowance of vitamin A for adult men and women, respectively. A 100-gram serving of canned herring packed in oil supplies 44.5 grams of protein. The USDA recommends that adults consume 0.8 grams of protein for every kilogram of body weight. This means that a serving of herring satisfies 95 percent of a 130 lb. woman's daily need for protein.