What It's Used For. Potassium sorbate is used as a preservative in a number of foods, since its anti-microbial properties stop the growth and spread of harmful bacteria and molds. It is used in cheese, baked goods, syrups and jams. First discovered in the mountain ash tree, potassium sorbate is a variation of sorbic acid, a polyunsaturated fat. As a potassium salt, potassium sorbate is used as a food preservative and is now produced synthetically.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Potassium sorbate is the potassium salt of sorbic acid, chemical formula CH 3 CH=CH-CH=CH-CO 2 K. It is a white salt that is very soluble in water (58.2% at 20 °C). It is primarily used as a food preservative (E number 202). Potassium sorbate is effective in a variety of applications including food, wine, and personal care products. Potassium sorbate is used to inhibit molds and yeasts in many foods, such as cheese, wine, yogurt, dried meats, apple cider, soft drinks and fruit drinks, and baked goods. It is used in the preparation of items such as maple syrup and milkshakes served by fast food restaurants such as McDonald
Potassium Sorbate is also used as a food preservative and is frequently seen as a wine ingredient to increase shelf life and stability (Wikipedia). It is FDA approved and not considered toxic. It is also CIR approved. Functions: Potassium Sorbate is a mild preservative being used in cosmetic and skin care formulas as a paraben alternative to prevent or retard the growth of microorganisms and protect products from spoiling, according to CosmeticsInfo.org.
Effective preservatives are vital for ensuring safety! Why we use it: Potassium sorbate is a food-grade preservative that has been effectively used for decades and is generally regarded as safe (GRAS) worldwide to preserve food products. It’s easily metabolized by the human body and doesn’t accumulate in either the body or the environment. What it is: Potassium sorbate is a salt of sorbic acid which is naturally found in some fruits (like the berries of mountain ash). The commercial ingredient is synthetically produced creating what is termed a “nature identical” chemical (chemically equivalent to the molecule found in nature).
Potassium sorbate is used in a wide variety of products due to its role as a preservative and its ease of manufacturing. Potassium sorbate can be found in a variety of sources, mainly as a preservative in preprocessed foods because it helps to prevent mold, fungi and yeast growth that can cause foods to spoil. This chemical can easily be produced and is quite inexpensive, making it an ideal choice for many industrial applications as well. Potassium sorbate is a chemical that is formed when potassium salt bonds with sorbic acid, creating a fatty acid salt that is polysaturated. At room temperature, it looks like a white crystalline powder, but the mixture will quickly dissolve in water, which will revert it back to sorbic acid as the potassium dissolves.
Uses of Potassium Sorbate. 1  Potassium sorbate is found in many food products, especially those which are meant to be stored and eaten at room temperature. 2  This helps to ward off particles such as mold or fungus that can cause foods to spoil or make people sick. Potassium sorbate is a chemical that is formed when potassium salt bonds with sorbic acid, creating a fatty acid salt that is polysaturated. At room temperature, it looks like a white crystalline powder, but the mixture will quickly dissolve in water, which will revert it back to sorbic acid as the potassium dissolves.