In our experience, both the skirt steak and flank steak should be cut across the grain and into strips for these best usage. We like the skirt steak for fajitas (and it’s often cut for that purpose in the store), seasoned with lime, lots of garlic, and fajita seasoning. 
Flat iron steak is the American name for the cut known as butlers' steak in the U.K. and oyster blade steak in Australia and New Zealand. It is cut with the grain from the leg of the animal producing a flavorful cut that is a bit tough because it contains a gristly fascia membrane unless removed. Especially popular are flat irons from Wagyu beef, as a way for chefs to offer more affordable and profitable dishes featuring Wagyū or Kobe beef. In the North American Meat Processor (NAMP) meat buyers guide, it is item #1114D Beef Shoulder, Top Blade Steak.
This steak has a deep, rich flavor which makes it perfect not only on its own but also as meat for many dishes. The Flat Iron is very similar to any of the Flat Steaks so anything calling for Skirt or Flank Steak will benefit from a Flat Iron Steak. This cut is best grilled over a medium-high heat. 
Trusted Results with Difference between flat iron steak and flank steak. Philly Cheese Steak Recipe: Bobby Flay: Food Network. Food Network invites you to try this Philly Cheese Steak recipe from Bobby Flay. ... is clear why you don't know the difference between to and too. 
Just one correction, re: the comments. Flat Iron steak is not flank steak. It comes from the shoulder clod of the cow, also known as the chuck, and it was only recently ‘discovered’ as a separate steak. It has even less fat than skirt steak, and is consequently a little more tender. The less fatty the meat, the more tender. That’s why you need different types of steaks…sometimes you want fatty flavor, sometimes you want buttery texture. It’s all a trade off, folks.
Flat Iron (Beef Shoulder Top Blade Steak) is the second most tender beef muscle. This steak is cut from the Beef Chuck Shoulder Clod Top Blade Roast, by cutting along the thick internal connective tissue. This cutting results in two halves which each resemble a small Flank steak. The Flat Iron name is used only in reference to steaks cut using this innovative new method and are typically labeled as Shoulder Top Blade Steaks (Flat Iron) in the meat case. These rectangular steaks average 8 ounces each. The thickness of each Flat Iron varies from 3/4 inch to 1-1/4 inches.
No it is not the same. When a beef is butchered it is hung on a rail in two pieces or halves. Then each half is cut in half so the carcass is in quarters now. You have a forequarter and a hindquarter. The flank steak comes from the hindquarter and the flat iron steak comes from the forequarter.
Best Answer: No, they are different cuts of meat, but the flat irons are more tender and incredibly flavorful-they one of my favorite cuts of beef. You can use them similarly to the skirt steak and I think you'll like them. These Wiki articles show you what part of the animal the different cuts come from. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skirt_steak http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flat_iron_s... show more I just moved to a new state, and couldn't find skirt steak at the new grocery store. I asked someone from the meat department if they had skirt steak, and she handed me flat iron steak.
No, but they come from the same general area of the cow  the flank or area between the ribs and hip. The skirt steak is the diaphragm muscle. It is a long, flat piece of meat, with a tendency toward toughness. But it has good flavor. It can be grilled or pan fried quickly with good results. 
Flank steak comes from the abdominal area of the cow. It is often used in London broil, stir-fry, and in Fajitas (substituting skirt steak). To maximize tenderness, the meat i … s best cut against the grain. 1 person found this useful. When a beef is butchered it is hung on a rail in two pieces or halves. Then each half is cut in half so the carcass is in quarters now. You have a forequarter and a hindquarter. The flank steak comes from the hindquarter and the flat iron steak comes from the forequarter.