There are over 50,000 known species of Mollusks, which makes them second only to the Arthropods in invertebrate phylum size. Among the Mollusks are some of the most well known of invertebrate sea creatures, like snails, clams, mussels, squid, and octopods.
Snails are at the bottom of most food chains, and near the outside of most food webs, so a lot of creatures like to eat them. Many types of birds—especially water birds such as geese and gulls—like to eat snails.
Snails are herbivorous which is why most of their diet comprises plants and vegetation. In the wild, snails are very fond of eating leaves, fruits, mushrooms and other types of vegetation. These animals predominantly feed on living plants; however, they can ingest decaying plants as well.
Introduction to Snails. Snails belong to the class Gastropoda, a classification that includes land, freshwater and sea snails and slugs. Snails’ ancestors are one of the earliest known types of animals in the world.
Some snakes eat snails, and so do some types of mammals such as raccoons, which like a meal of snails from time to time. Some people even like to dine on snails. In fact, in the country of France, some types of snails are considered a delicacy —which means something very special and very good to eat.
Snail is the most familiar word that is given to the members of the class Gastropoda, having coiled shells in their adult stage. There are several types of snails namely land snails, freshwater snails and sea snails. Nevertheless, the word snail is commonly referred to as land snail.
The snail is a small to medium sized mollusc that is generally split into three groups which are land snails, sea snails and freshwater snails.
Snails that do not have a shell are not snails, but slugs. In order to break down their food, most snails have thousands of microscopic tooth-like structures located on a ribbon-like tongue called a radula. The radula works like a file, ripping the food into small pieces for the hungry snail.
Enemies of Terrestrial Snails. Animals that eat snails can be found in almost every systematic group. Snails usually are quite defenceless and so are welcome sources of protein to many animals. Even those that usually do not eat snails will do so in times of meagre food supply.