1 Overall, a typical mold remediation project to remove mold from the ducts, crawl spaces, walls and attic of a house runs around $2,000-$6,000. 2  And if the mold has caused widespread structural damage, repair costs can increase the total to as much as $10,000-$30,000 or more. 1 Removing mold from an average house crawlspace ranges from $500-$4,000, according to Charter Oak Environmental of Connecticut. 2  Overall, a typical mold remediation project to remove mold from the ducts, crawl spaces, walls and attic of a house runs around $2,000-$6,000.
A simple mold removal job may cost as little as $3,000 while a larger, more complicated job may cost $15,000 to $20,000 or even more. Don’t panic if you’re reading this and thinking you cannot afford to pay $20,000 for mold removal. Your mold removal job may not cost that much and it’s possible your home owner’s insurance might even cover some of the cost. You may be able to do some of the work yourself, too, saving money in that way. Factors that influence the cost of mold remediation include: 1  The size of the area affected by mold. 2  Whether or not there is mold in your heating, ventilation and air conditioning system. 3  Whether or not moldy materials can be cleaned or must be removed, safely disposed of, and replaced (like insulation, drywall or carpet).
They know that the problem is serious and it needs to be cleaned up immediately, but they are nervous about the mold cleanup cost because it can quickly add up in severe cases of mold growth. If you hire a professional, the average cost is about $3,000 - $6,000. However the cost can be significantly higher depending on the amount of mold, where it is located, and if there is any water damage to the house. 
Mold remediation cost can vary from the low end of 500 and upwards 4-5,000 depending on what type of mold needs removal. Most homeowners call mold abatement companies when the spot Black mold, or smell mildew. If you’re looking for 2015 breakdown for Cost of Mold Removal materials and what Mold Removal cost might be, you’ve come to the right place. As an experienced licensed home improvement contractor, I know first hand what it should cost for various levels — from Basic, Better, and of course the best.
Mold Removal Prices/Mold Remediation Prices. First of all, if you suspect mold but aren’t sure and would like to have an environmental inspection done on your property, you may. It will cost $200 to $400 for that service. The cost of mold removal can vary greatly.
The mold remediation costs can range from $500 to $30,000 depending on the size of the area that is infested with mold. If the area is a small one, then you obviously can expect lower mold remediation costs. Besides the mold removal costs, mold remediation costs includes lots of other costs like mold inspection cost, the cost that goes into repairing leakages if there is any structural damage to the building, etc.
Mold Removal Costs. Mold removal costs can range anywhere from a few hundred dollars to thousands of dollars, and the average cost of mold remediation really depends on the severity of the problem and what needs to be done. For example, cleaning up a minor mold problem by yourself may not be very expensive. Spending extra money will help to protect the health of everyone in the home. The consultation fee including testing before and after the cleanup will range from $500-$800. The average cost of mold remediation for small projects is $200 - $300 dollars. If you do the job yourself you will just need to pay for mold cleaning supplies, rubber gloves, a respirator, goggles, and any necessary equipment that the mold specialist suggests