Cerebrovascular refers to blood flow within the brain. Cerebrovascular disease includes all disorders in which an area of the brain is temporarily or permanently affected by bleeding or lack of blood flow. Cerebrovascular diseases included stroke, carotid stenosis, vertebral stenosis and intracranial stenosis, aneurysms and vascular malformations. A TIA is a temporary cerebrovascular event that leaves no permanent damage. Usually it entails an artery to the brain is temporarily blocked, causing stroke-like symptoms, but the blockage dislodges before any permanent damage occurs. Symptoms of a TIA may be similar to a stroke, but they resolve quickly.
1 Severe blockage of the arteries to the brain is known as carotid stenosis. 2  Ischemic stroke ,the most common, is due to a blood clot that completely blocks a blood vessel (in the brain). 3  Subarachnoid haemorrhage where blood leaks out of blood vessels on to the surface of the brain. Most commonly this is a stroke or mini-stroke and sometimes can be a hemorrhagic stroke. Any of these can result in vascular dementia. Hypertension (high blood pressure) is the most important contributing cause because it damages the blood vessel lining exposing collagen where platelets aggregate to initiate a repair.
infarction or ischemic stroke, blood supply is cut off by a blocked blood vessel. In a transient ischemic attack (TIA), blood supply is temporarily reduced. Ischemic strokes are the most common form of stroke. In a cerebral hemorrhage, a blood vessel leaks or bursts. 
A transient ischemic attack (TIA) happens when blood flow to part of the brain is blocked or reduced, often by a blood clot. After a short time, blood flows again and the symptoms go away. With a stroke, the blood flow stays blocked, and the brain has permanent damage. 
infarction or ischemic stroke, blood supply is cut off by a blocked blood vessel. In a transient ischemic attack (TIA), blood supply is temporarily reduced. Ischemic strokes are the most common form of stroke. In a cerebral hemorrhage, a blood vessel leaks or bursts. Hemorrhagic strokes can occur in the brain itself (an intracerebral hemorrhage) or within the spaces that line the surface of the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage and subdural hemorrhage). A cerebral aneurysm is an artery with a weak spot that balloons out.
Cerebral infarction – A stroke caused by interruption or blockage of blood flow to the brain; also called ischemic stroke. Cerebral thrombosis – Formation of a blood clot in an artery that supplies blood to part of the brain. Cerebrovascular – Pertaining to the brain and the blood vessels that supply it. Cerebrovascular occlusion – The blocking or closing up of a blood vessel in the brain.
1 Transient ischemic attack (TIA) leaves little to no permanent damage within the brain. 2  The symptoms of this include facial weakness, visual impairment, loss of coordination or balance, a sudden headache, and mental confusion with unintelligible speech. Most commonly this is a stroke or mini-stroke and sometimes can be a hemorrhagic stroke. Any of these can result in vascular dementia. Hypertension (high blood pressure) is the most important contributing cause because it damages the blood vessel lining exposing collagen where platelets aggregate to initiate a repair.
Ischemic Stroke Ischemic stroke is the most common type of stroke, accounting for a large majority of strokes. There are two types of ischemic stroke: thrombotic and embolic. A thrombotic stroke occurs when a blood clot, called a thrombus, blocks an artery to the brain and stops blood flow. A TIA is a temporary cerebrovascular event that leaves no permanent damage. Usually it entails an artery to the brain is temporarily blocked, causing stroke-like symptoms, but the blockage dislodges before any permanent damage occurs. Symptoms of a TIA may be similar to a stroke, but they resolve quickly.
Together, the word cerebrovascular refers to blood flow in your brain. The term cerebrovascular disease includes all disorders in which an area of the brain is temporarily or permanently affected by ischemia or bleeding and one or more of the cerebral blood vessels are involved in the pathological process. Cerebral thrombosis – Formation of a blood clot in an artery that supplies blood to part of the brain. Cerebrovascular – Pertaining to the brain and the blood vessels that supply it. Cerebrovascular occlusion – The blocking or closing up of a blood vessel in
Cerebrovascular disease is a vascular disease of the cerebral circulation. Arteries supplying oxygen to the brain are affected resulting in one of a number of cerebrovascular diseases. Most commonly this is a stroke or mini-stroke and sometimes can be a hemorrhagic stroke. Any of these can result in vascular dementia. Hypertension (high blood pressure) is the most important contributing cause because it damages the blood vessel lining exposing collagen where platelets aggregate to initiate a repair.