Overview: The Original One, that is the FIRG flat-face Series from Stucchi. Developed in 1982, Stucchi has supplied the original ISO 16028 interchangeable coupling, and still continues to supply this Series due to the good performance, long life and competitive prices on this Series. Technical Characteristics:
Products. Every one of the 1500 articles in our product range is an idea to which we have given form. You can find them all here, including all our accessories and new items.
With products specifically developed for applications in almost every industrial market, Stucchi is able to meet the need and exceed customer expectations. Stucchi manufactures a wide variety of quick couplers in sizes from 1/8 to 2-1/2 in brass, steel, and stainless steel. Stucchi also makes multi-coupling plates in an array of designs for applications such as front-end loaders, excavators, snow plows, skid steers, and injection molding equipment.
1 Product Quality Assurance is documented throughout our supply chain...beginning with raw material certifications. 2  Ongoing improvements in production material, automation of production, fatigue testing, pressure testing parts prior to shipping and an ISO Quality Management System. The U.S. operation began in 2001 to support the growing needs of its OEM customer base here in the U.S. and to set up a North America distribution network to support those OEM’s and the aftermarket.
Many hydraulic quick couplers look alike on the outside, but performance, ease of use and overall reliability vary greatly between brands. We invite you to try our products and compare Stucchi to current suppliers and learn why Stucchi is the choice of leading OEM’s and distributors globally. The U.S. operation began in 2001 to support the growing needs of its OEM customer base here in the U.S. and to set up a North America distribution network to support those OEM’s and the aftermarket.
Stucchi is an ISO 9001 / Vision 2000 certified manufacturer of hydraulic quick disconnects based in Brignano, Italy with U.S. operations in Romeoville, IL. The U.S. operation began in 2001 to support the growing needs of its OEM customer base here in the U.S. and to set up a North America distribution network to support those OEM’s and the aftermarket.
Stucchi USA is the subsidiary of Stucchi Spa which is a family owned and managed corporation located in the Northern Italy province of Brignano, in the town of Pagazzano. The company was founded in 1960 under the management of the Stucchi brothers: Innocente and Lorenzo. The U.S. operation began in 2001 to support the growing needs of its OEM customer base here in the U.S. and to set up a North America distribution network to support those OEM’s and the aftermarket.
Valerie Dore is an Italo disco musical project formed in 1984 by producer Roberto Gasparini. The moniker is now used as a stage name by Monica Stucchi (born May 28, 1962 in Monaco). The Valerie Dore project launched in 1984 with The Night, an Italo disco ballad written by Barbara Lynn Addoms with the Nicolosi brothers from Novecento.
In 1892 Stucchi Prinetti & Stucchi began manufacturing bicycles. In 1914 Alfonso Calzolari rode a Stucchi to victory in the Giro d'Italia, and the 1919 Giro d'Italia was won by Costante Girardengo on a Stucchi. In 1899 Prinetti & Stucchi started manufacturing motorized tricycles and quadricycles. The Tipo 1, a motorized tricycle utilizing two De Dion engines and a Rochet-Schneider frame, was designed by Ettore Bugatti. In 1900 Bugatti participated in the Targa Rignano in a quadricycle.