From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), also called a sedimentation rate or Westergren ESR, is the rate at which red blood cells sediment in a period of one hour. It is a common hematology test, and is a non-specific measure of inflammation. Note: mm/h. = millimeters per hour. Westergren's original normal values (men 3 mm and women 7 mm) made no allowance for a person's age and in 1967 it was confirmed that ESR values tend to rise with age and to be generally higher in women.
The normal sedimentation rate (Westergren method) for males is 0-15 millimeters per hour, females is 0-20 millimeters per hour. The sedimentation rate may normally be slightly higher in the elderly. Medically reviewed by a Board Certified Family Practice Physician. A sedimentation rate is common blood test that is used to detect and monitor inflammation in the body. The sedimentation rate is also called the erythrocyte sedimentation rate because it is a measure of the red blood cells (erythrocytes) sedimenting in a tube over a given period of time.
To learn what the results mean for you, talk with your healthcare provider. ESR is measured in millimeters per hour (mm/h). The normal values are: 0 to 10 mm/h in children. 0 to 15 mm/h in men younger than 50. 0 to 20 mm/h in men older than 50. 0 to 20 mm/h in women younger than 50. 0 to 30 mm/h in women older than 50. ESR above 100 mm/h is most likely caused by an active disease. 
ESR is an abbreviated form for erythrocyte sedimentation rate. It is often referred to as the sedimentation rate or the sed rate. An ESR blood test is usually done to check and understand the degree of inflammation in the body such as cancers, various kinds of infections as well as autoimmune disorders and diseases. It is a non specific and an easy test which is really cost effective as compared to other blood tests
ESR is said to be a non-specific test because an elevated result often indicates the presence of inflammation but does not tell the health practitioner exactly where the inflammation is in the body or what is causing it. An ESR can be affected by other conditions besides inflammation. An ESR may be ordered when a condition or disease is suspected of causing inflammation somewhere in the body. There are numerous inflammatory conditions that may be detected using this test.
Sedimentation Rate (Sed Rate). Guide. The sedimentation rate (sed rate) blood test measures how quickly red blood cells (erythrocytes) settle in a test tube in one hour. The more red cells that fall to the bottom of the test tube in one hour, the higher the sed rate. 
The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR or sed rate) is a relatively simple, inexpensive, non-specific test that has been used for many years to help detect inflammation associated with conditions such as infections, cancers, and autoimmune diseases. An ESR may be ordered when a condition or disease is suspected of causing inflammation somewhere in the body. There are numerous inflammatory conditions that may be detected using this test.
ESR is used to help diagnose certain specific inflammatory diseases, temporal arteritis, systemic vasculitis and polymyalgia rheumatica. A significantly elevated ESR is one of the main test results used to support the diagnosis. An ESR may be ordered when a condition or disease is suspected of causing inflammation somewhere in the body. There are numerous inflammatory conditions that may be detected using this test.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a marker of inflammation in the body. Therefore, its level in the blood increases if there is any inflammation in the body. C-reactive protein, along with other markers of inflammation (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, or ESR) are also sometimes referred to as acute phase reactants. C-reactive protein is produced by the cells in the liver.