Honeysuckle can be planted in early spring, as soon as frost danger has passed. Prepare the planting area as you would for any other perennial and set the plants a minimum of two to three apart and 6-12 away from any support structure. Plant them 2 feet apart if you are using them as a ground cover plant. If your Honeysuckle is to be grown on a trellis or an arbor, put this support structure in place before planting, to avoid damaging your vine. Then plant your Honeysuckle 6-12 in. away from the support to allow enough growing room for developing stems.
Dutch honeysuckle grows more slowly than the other species but will reach 22 feet. Giant Burmese honeysuckle grows to 30 feet, has large leaves and flowers that stay on the plant longer than other honeysuckles. Honeysuckle is somewhat drought-tolerant but for the vine to grow tall quickly, the soil should not be allowed to dry out completely. Mulch around the base of the plant to retain moisture.
Purchase a young plant from the nursery or garden centre. Honeysuckle can be grown from seed but is easier to grow from half-hardened cuttings or by layers if you are growing it from an existing plant. In terms of the suitability of the species to your region, check the label because some species can cope with frost, while others can't and some are hardier than others. How to Grow Honeysuckle. Honeysuckle (Lonicera spp.) is a fragrant climber or woody shrub (depending on the variety) that produces lovely yellow, gold, white, pink, red, etc., flowers.
Moisture. Honeysuckle is somewhat drought-tolerant but for the vine to grow tall quickly, the soil should not be allowed to dry out completely. Mulch around the base of the plant to retain moisture.
Report Abuse. I know for a fact that honeysuckle grows quickly, and dependin on the species, it could have your fence thickly covered in a around 3 years... Another plant that is great for covering fences, depending on your region, is moonflower. Report Abuse. If allowed to grow `sideways` along a fence, most types of climbing Honeysuckle would make 10 feet in 5 years. This varies with position, cultivation, and climate. Cuttings (starts) can be taken throughout Summer, and planted Autumn (Fall).
Tips. 1  A honeysuckle that will bloom through winter in temperate winter climates is Lonicera fragrantissima, which will produce flowers from mid-to late winter. 2  This honeysuckle is bushy (shrub) and grows to a height of about 7 feet (2.1 metres). 3  It has cream to white colored flowers. How to Grow Honeysuckle. Honeysuckle (Lonicera spp.) is a fragrant climber or woody shrub (depending on the variety) that produces lovely yellow, gold, white, pink, red, etc., flowers.
So, those of you with honeysuckle, how does yours attach and grow well? What have you done to encourage it upwards? I have tied mine a few times in places and it doesn't seem to help much. The trellis is made of 3/4 inch cedar that is that is spaced every 10 inches or so, horizontally as well as vertically. 
Considerations. Pink honeysuckle (Lonicera tatarica) is a deciduous shrub hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 to 9. Unlike vining honeysuckles, pink honeysuckle is a shrubby plant that can reach 12 feet tall and spread to 10 feet wide. It grows fast, spreading several feet or more each growing season. The small pink blossoms appear in May and attract hummingbirds and butterflies. 
In a woody plant, fast growth means more than 2 to 3 feet per year. Honeysuckles easily outdo that by growing from 7 to 30 feet, depending on the variety and conditions. Because flowers are produced on 1- or 2-year-old wood, the vine should be pruned back after flowering every year so it can produce new wood. Honeysuckle is somewhat drought-tolerant but for the vine to grow tall quickly, the soil should not be allowed to dry out completely. Mulch around the base of the plant to retain moisture.