Ecological succession is a process of inhabiting a zoological area by a group of organisms. it involves many stages to reach the climax stage such as primary, secondary, terti … ary names basing on the habitat where it occurs. once the organisms reach the most stable stage of the succession.
Succession is the sequence in which one person after another succeeds to a title, throne or estate. There is always a replacement, and that is why it is an ongoing process. …. 1  Breaking it Down: Example of a Process Analysis Process analysis involves the study and documentation of a task.
Ecological succession is the gradual change in the make-up of a biological community over time. In the process of ecological succession, organisms that are present at one stag … e change the environment in some way.
An ecosystem undergoes what is referred to as ecological succession  in response to a disturbance. Ecological succession is the natural  process in which a disturbed area is … gradually taken over by a  species or groups of species that were not there before.
Ecological succession is the same idea-it is the observed changes in an ecological community over time. These changes are fairly predictable and orderly. Within an ecological community, the species composition will change over time as some species become more prominent while others may fade out of existence.
Succession is a process of ecological change in which a series of natural communities are established and then replaced over time.
Succession is the process by which new community gets established at an area which had been uninhabited. The community which gets established at the site is called climax community. It is the aggregation of changes of species structure in an ecological community over time.
no because the process of succession will not end if the land is not disturbed. succession process until a forest fire or other disturbance clean the area, which start the cyc … le of succession over again.
Ecological succession is the observed process of change in the species structure of an ecological community over time. Within any community some species may become less abundant over some time interval, or they may even vanish from the ecosystem altogether.