They must elect this benefit. If you’re not already getting benefits, you should contact Social Security about three months before your 65th birthday to sign up for Medicare. You can sign up for Medicare even if you don’t plan to retire at age 65. But, you apply for Medicare at Social Security, and we can give you general information about the Medicare program. Medicare has four parts • Hospital insurance (Part A) helps pay for inpatient care in a hospital or skilled nursing facility (following a hospital stay), some home health care and hospice care.
Note. You can sign up for free Part A (if you’re eligible) any time during or after your Initial Enrollment Period starts. If you sign up within 6 months of your 65th birthday, your coverage will start the first day of the month you turn 65, or the month before you turn 65 (if your birthday is the first of the month). After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example.
Medicare is for the elderly and disabled, Medicaid is for the very poor. I think a healthy individual (non-disabled) can begin drawing Medicare at 65, the disabled can draw it any age. Medicaid you can get at birth, through age 18. After that, to get Medicaid you have to be a pregnant woman or elderly. Report Abuse. When you reach the age of 65, you're entitled to begin receiving medicare and medicaid benefits. This does not occur precisely on your 65th birthday, anymore. It might be at 65 + 4 months, or there abouts.
You qualify under age 65 if: ﻿ 1  You have been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least 24 months (which need not be consecutive); or. ﻿ 2  You receive a disability pension from the Railroad Retirement Board and meet certain conditions; or. Provided that you're a U.S. citizen or have been a legal resident for at least five years, you can still get Medicare benefits at age 65 or older by: ﻿ 1  Paying premiums for Part A (hospital insurance). 2  If you have fewer than 30 work credits, you pay the maximum premium, $426 a month in 2014.
1 full retirement age is older than 66 (that is, you were born after 1954), you can still start your retirement benefits at 62 but the reduction in your benefit amount will be greater, up to a maximum of 30 percent at age 62 for people born in 1960 and later. 1 full retirement age is 66, the reduction of your benefits at age 62 is 25 percent; at age 63, it is about 20 percent; at age 64, it is about 13.3 percent; and at age 65, it is about 6.7 percent.
Early retirement — age 62. You can begin receiving benefits as early as age 62, but if you do, the monthly payment will be reduced from normal retirement age. For those born in 1960 or later, that will mean a 30% reduction in your monthly benefit compared to waiting until your normal retirement age. If you are planning for your retirement at age 66 or later, you can collect full benefits. This age will vary depending on your year of birth. If you were born between 1943 and 1954, your age of full retirement begins when you turn 66.
NOTE: Even though Social Security’s full retirement age is no longer 65, you should sign up for Medicare three months before your 65th birthday. You can apply on our website at www.socialsecurity.gov. But, you apply for Medicare at Social Security, and we can give you general information about the Medicare program. Medicare has four parts • Hospital insurance (Part A) helps pay for inpatient care in a hospital or skilled nursing facility (following a hospital stay), some home health care and hospice care.
President and Senior Agent, Outlook Life, Most of the U.S. You can collect Medicare Part A and Part B at age 65 if you or your spouse has paid Medicare taxes for at least 40 quarters. You can collect Medicare under age 65 if you have been receiving Social Security Disability benefits for 24 months, and in several other circumstances. 
Social Security Benefits Age. You can start receiving Social Security benefits at age 62 but, here's the catch: you'll collect less benefits at age 62 than if you wait until the full retirement age that ranges between 66 (for those born between 1943 and 1954) and 67 (for those born 1960 and later). Even if you don't plan to start collecting Social Security at age 65 (or you have health insurance from an employer), you can sign up for Medicare. The SSA recommends that you contact them about three months before you turn 65 to apply
If you sign up for Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) and/or Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period, your coverage start date will depend on your birthday. If you sign up within 6 months of your 65th birthday, your coverage will start the first day of the month you turn 65, or the month before you turn 65 (if your birthday is the first of the month). After that, you’re coverage start date will go back (retroactively) 6 months from when you sign up. Example.