Augusta is a city in the U.S state of Georgia. The city named in honor of Augusta of Saxe-Gotha. has been entitled with the names 'Masters City', 'The Garden City'. The city was the second state capital of Georgia from1785 to 1795. It is the second largest city and second largest metropolitan area in the state.
...(better known as Augusta Housing Authority or AHA) is located in Augusta-Richmond County, Georgia. AHA was created in 1937 to provide safe, sanitary housing for low income families. Olmsted Homes was the first public housing development constructed in Georgia under the Housing Act of 1937. 
Once a center of trading and later a seat of state government, Augusta is now home to the Masters Golf Tournament, the National Science Center's Fort Discovery, and U.S. President Woodrow Wilson's boyhood home. frussell@augustaga.gov. The state's second oldest and second largest city, Augusta, the county seat for Richmond County, pays tribute to Princess Augusta, wife of the Prince of Wales.
The Superior Court of the Augusta Judicial Circuit is comprised of BURKE COUNTY; COLUMBIA COUNTY; and RICHMOND COUNTY. The Superior Court is Georgia’s only general jurisdiction trial court with exclusive, constitutional authority over felony cases, divorce, equity, and cases regarding title to land. In addition, the Superior Court may try any form of civil or criminal case except probate matters.
State Court of Richmond County. Welcome to the website of the State Court of Richmond County, Georgia. Each of us is appreciative of the opportunity to serve the Court and our Community. Please allow us to share the History of the Court with you. We Invite you to take a moment to read the following account of our past heritage. House Bill 1020, creating an additional Judge of the First Division of the State Court of Richmond County, Georgia, and House Bill 1016, creating Division Two of the State Court of Richmond County, were signed by Governor Zell Miller on April 21, 1997.
The Augusta Canal is a historic canal located in Augusta, Georgia, United States. The canal is fed by the Savannah River and passes through three levels (approximately 13 miles total) in suburban and urban Augusta before the water returns to the river at various locations. 