Outwash plain. A broad, low-slope angle alluvial plain composed of glacially eroded, sorted sediment (termed outwash), that has been transported by meltwater. The alluvial plain begins at the foot of a glacier and may extend for miles
OUTWASH PLAINS. The large quantities of water that flowed from the melting ice deposited various kinds of materials, the most important of which is called glacial outwash. Outwash plains made up of outwash deposits are characteristically flat and consist of layers of sand and other fine sediments. A till plain is composed of unsorted material (till) of all sizes with much clay, an outwash plain is mainly stratified (layered and sorted) gravel and sand. The till plain has a gently undulating to hilly surface; the outwash is flat or very gently undulating where it is a thin veneer on the underlying till.
outwash plain. (geology). A broad, outspread flat or gently sloping alluvial deposit of outwash in front of or beyond the terminal moraine of a glacier. Also known as apron; frontal apron; frontal plain; marginal plain; morainal apron; morainal plain; outwash apron; overwash plain; sandur; wash plain. 1  Facebook
The Kankakee Outwash Plain is a flat plain interspersed with sand dunes in the Kankakee River valley in northwestern Indiana and northeastern Illinois of the United States. It is just south of the Valparaiso Moraine and was formed during the Wisconsin Glaciation. As the muddy meltwater reached the valley where the slope lessened, the water slowed down, depositing the sand on the outwash plain. This created a smooth, flat, and sandy plain. Before its draining, the Kankakee Marsh, located on the outwash plain, was one of the largest freshwater marshes in
The Kankakee Outwash Plain is located on the southern side of the Valparaiso Moraine. It stretches from just west of the Illinois and Indiana border near Momence, Illinois, along the Kankakee River valley eastward in a northeast arc towards South Bend. In Porter County, Indiana, the plain begins to widen out. As the muddy meltwater reached the valley where the slope lessened, the water slowed down, depositing the sand on the outwash plain. This created a smooth, flat, and sandy plain. Before its draining, the Kankakee Marsh, located on the outwash plain, was one of the largest freshwater marshes in the United States.
Glacial Plain A l outwash plain is a stratified deposit of sand and gravel transported by water from a melting glacial ice sheet. The deposits are carried away wit … h the meltwater and  deposited over a broad plain. The larger solid deposits like  boulders are typically found near the glacier, while smaller  deposits such as silt can be found at a fair distance from the  glacier. Answered.
A till plain is behind (towards the direction of retreat) of a moraine, and the outwash plain is in front of the moraine. A till plain is composed of unsorted material (till) of all sizes with much clay, an outwash plain is mainly stratified (layered and sorted) gravel and sand. The till plain has a gently undulating to hilly surface; the outwash is flat or very gently undulating where it is a thin veneer on the underlying till. As a rule flourishing farms are on the till plains; the majority of abandoned farms in the northern part of the Lower Peninsula are on sandy outwash plains
An outwash plain, also called a sandur (plural: sandurs), sandr or sandar, is a plain formed of glacial sediments deposited by meltwater outwash at the terminus of a glacier. 