1. Metabolism is all of the chemical reactions occurring within an organism. 2. Chemical reactions occur in a series of steps called a metabolic pathway. Enzymes functio … n to regulate the reactions at each step in a pathway. Some examples of chemical reactions that occur in the cell are cellular respiration, protein synthesis, DNA replication, and transcription. 3 people found this useful. Edit
The substance (or substances) initially involved in a chemical reaction are called reactants or reagents. Chemical reactions are usually characterized by a chemical change, and they yield one or more products, which usually have properties different from the reactants. The general concept of a chemical reaction has been extended to reactions between entities smaller than atoms, including nuclear reactions, radioactive decays, and reactions between elementary particles as described by quantum field theory.
1. Metabolism is all of the chemical reactions occurring within an organism. 2. Chemical reactions occur in a series of steps called a metabolic pathway. Enzymes functio … n to regulate the reactions at each step in a pathway. 1 person found this useful. The sum of chemical reactions in a cell is called metabolism. + 26 others found this useful. William Lee. Edit. Share to: 1  How to Use the SUM Function in Excel Excel offers a variety of functions as program features. 2  Functions are also known as formulas and are equations that are pre-formatted
Marie Curie. The reactions that occur in cells are both anabolic (building up) and catabolic (breaking down). The catabolic reactions provide the energy for the anabolic reactions. The sum total of all catabolic and anabolic reactions in the cell is called metabolism. Some examples of chemical reactions that occur in the cell are cellular respiration, protein synthesis, DNA replication, and transcription. 3 people found this useful. Edit
37. The sum of all of the chemical reactions that occur in a cell collectively are called:a. respirationb. photosynthesisC metabolismd. reaction summary Mader - 003 Chapter... #66 38. Enzymes:a. give energy to metabolic reactionsB speed up metabolic reactionsc. act as a buffer in metabolic reactionsd. 
Metabolism and energy Metabolism: chemical reactions in cells Countless chemical reactions take place in cells and are responsible for all the actions of organisms. Together, these reactions make up an organism's metabolism. Metabolism: chemical reactions in cells.
The word metabolism can also refer to all chemical reactions that occur in living organisms, including digestion and the transport of substances into and between different cells, in which case the set of reactions within the cells is called intermediary metabolism or intermediate metabolism. 
Enzymes allow many chemical reactions to occur within the homeostasis constraints of a living system. Enzymes function as organic catalysts. A catalyst is a chemical involved in, but not changed by, a chemical reaction. Many enzymes function by lowering the activation energy of reactions. By bringing the reactants closer together, chemical bonds may be weakened and reactions will proceed faster than without the catalyst.