There are two types of gene cloning: in vivo, which involves the use of restriction enzymes and ligases using vectors and cloning the fragments into host cells (as can be seen in the image above). The other type is in vitro which is using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method to create copies of fragments of DNA. 
Summary. Molecular cloning is a set of methods, which are used to insert recombinant DNA into a vector-a carrier of DNA molecules that will replicate recombinant DNA fragments in host organisms. The DNA fragment, which may be a gene, can be isolated from a prokaryotic or eukaryotic specimen. 
Cloning in biotechnology refers to processes used to create copies of DNA fragments (molecular cloning), cells (cell cloning), or organisms. The term also refers to the production of multiple copies of a product such as digital media or software. Molecular cloning refers to the process of making multiple molecules. Cloning is commonly used to amplify DNA fragments containing whole genes, but it can also be used to amplify any DNA sequence such as promoters, non-coding sequences and randomly fragmented DNA.
When scientists clone a gene, they isolate and make exact copies of just one of an organism's genes. Cloning a gene usually involves copying the DNA sequence of that gene into a smaller, more easily manipulated piece of DNA, such as a plasmid. This process makes it easier to study the function of the individual gene in the laboratory. 
Molecular cloning generally uses DNA sequences from two different organisms: the species that is the source of the DNA to be cloned, and the species that will serve as the living host for replication of the recombinant DNA. Molecular cloning methods are central to many contemporary areas of modern biology and medicine. The use of the word cloning refers to the fact that the method involves the replication of one molecule to produce a population of cells with identical DNA molecules.
Gene cloning is a method for making many identical copies of a gene by inserting the gene into a living host cell. Under appropriate conditions, the host cell will replicate the foreign DNA along with its own DNA whenever it divides. 
Backcross breeding. Gene Cloning. Gene cloning is the process in which a gene of interest is located and copied (cloned) out of DNA extracted from an organism. When DNA is extracted from an organism, all of its genes are extracted at one time. This DNA, which contains thousands of different genes
DNA cloning has been used in genetic engineering to create plants that offer better nutritional value. DNA cloning is being used in gene therapy to create new treatments for genetic disorders. In DNA cloning, it is possible to clone entire gene fragments, random portions of DNA fragments or specific DNA sequences. Scientists can clone entire gene fragments, random portions of DNA fragments or specific DNA sequences.
Controversies. Bacterial plasmids used in gene cloning naturally contain genes that encode some form of antibiotic resistance. As a result of the gene cloning process, the cloned genes that are put into plant cells to make a transgenic plant may also have an antibiotic resistance gene. Gene Cloning. Gene cloning is the process in which a gene of interest is located and copied (cloned) out of DNA extracted from an organism. When DNA is extracted from an organism, all of its genes are extracted at one time.