Acid peat moss, also called sphagnum peat moss and just plain peat moss, is a moss that is highly useful to gardeners who are trying to grow healthy, happy plants in alkaline soil. Acid peat moss has a large cell structure that enables it to absorb air and water like a sponge. This helps soil because the peat moss also holds onto nutrients that would simply wash out in a heavy rain. In addition, acid peat moss has a pH of 3.6 to 4.2. Of course, this is far too acidic for most plants, but when you spread the peat moss on the soil in the form of fertilizer, it can bring a soil's pH down to a more pleasant level for your plants
Overview. Acid peat moss, also called sphagnum peat moss and just plain peat moss, is a moss that is highly useful to gardeners who are trying to grow healthy, happy plants in alkaline soil. While some plants love a basic gardening medium, most prefer some acidity. Acid peat moss has a large cell structure that enables it to absorb air and water like a sponge. This helps soil because the peat moss also holds onto nutrients that would simply wash out in a heavy rain. In addition, acid peat moss has a pH of 3.6 to 4.2. Of course, this is far too acidic for most plants, but when you spread the peat moss on the soil in the form of fertilizer, it can bring a soil's pH down to a more pleasant level for your plants
Peat Moss is somewhat acidic if you test it right out of the bag, but the acidity comes from tannic and humic acids, which are weak acids that easily bind with other items in the soil. There have been several postings about Peat Moss being very acidic, and much of the information being posted is by people regurgitating bad information on the Internet-it is clear they are doing that because they often use the same wording.
Sphagnum peat moss improves soil structure and supports a slightly acidic growing environment. Growing a delicious crop of strawberries in the home garden depends on several factors. Strawberries prefer growing in well-draining, sandy-loam soil that is slightly acidic. Sphagnum moss is the live part of the sphagnum moss plant that is sold in whole pieces and usually used to line wire hanging baskets or as packing material to protect plant roots during shipping. The more useful form of sphagnum moss is sphagnum peat moss, a product formed from decomposing sphagnum moss.
With a pH around 4.0, sphagnum peat moss is a great soil amendment for acid-loving plants such as azaleas and blueberries. When planting acid-loving plants, mix sphagnum peat moss with soil at a 50/50 ratio in the planting hole and apply a 2-inch layer over the soil surface. The peat helps to lower the soil's pH, allowing the plants to absorb nutrients such as iron.
Acid peat moss makes the soil a more acidic medium for your plants to live in. It can also hold onto nutrients if the soil is dry and prone to washing out when it rains. Acid peat moss is also a fully natural way to change your soil's acidity levels and does not come with the risks that chemical modifications might. Acid peat moss has a large cell structure that enables it to absorb air and water like a sponge. This helps soil because the peat moss also holds onto nutrients that would simply wash out in a heavy rain. In addition, acid peat moss has a pH of 3.6 to 4.2. Of course, this is far too acidic for most plants, but when you spread the peat moss on the soil in the form of fertilizer, it can bring a soil's pH down to a more pleasant level for your plants
Submit. Sphagnum peat moss is a slowly decomposing, long-fibered mulch or soil amendment native to Canada, Europe, Ireland and Russia. It has an acidic pH close to 4.0, with 7.0 pH being neutral. Peat moss mixed with soil in a 50/50 ratio is an excellent treatment for acid-loving plants. Keywords: peat moss pH, sphagnum peat moss, peat moss acidity