Payroll's percentage of a company's expense account often depends on the type of business or industry involved. For example, service industries typically have higher payroll costs. From an overall financial standpoint, businesses that pay out 20 to 30 percent of gross revenue in payroll expenses generally are doing OK. Results of a survey conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust show that the average employer costs for health insurance coverage for workers increased by 9 percent in 2011 compared to a 3 percent increase in 2010.
Nationwide, administration accounted for an average of 24.8 percent of each hospital's spending in fiscal 1990. Average hospital administrative costs ranged from 20.5 percent in Minnesota to 30.6 percent in Hawaii. Administrative salaries accounted for 22.4 percent of the average hospital's salary costs. Administrative costs were similar in states with high and low rates of enrollment in health maintenance organizations (HMOs). 
Payroll takes up a significant portion of employee compensation. In June 2011, wages and salaries per hour worked accounted for 70.4 percent of employer costs for employee compensation, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. Results of a survey conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust show that the average employer costs for health insurance coverage for workers increased by 9 percent in 2011 compared to a 3 percent increase in 2010.
Formula. To determine the amount paid for salaries as a percentage of operating expenses, simply add up all the operating expenses in your company, including research and development, supplies and equipment, and general and administrative costs. Determining what percentage of your revenue should be spent on salaries is one of the most important decisions for your business. If the percentage is too large, you risk running out of money for other expenses. If it's too small, you risk losing employees to competitors.
A 403(b) plan is available only to tax-exempt employers. Although costs vary according to an employee’s occupation, findings of the most recent National Compensation Survey show that the average cost to private industry employers for retirement and savings benefits is 3.7 percent of total compensation. These costs are higher for union workers. Results of a survey conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust show that the average employer costs for health insurance coverage for workers increased by 9 percent in 2011 compared to a 3 percent increase in 2010.
With owner dentists' salaries included as a cost, practice expenses average around 90 percent of gross billings, dropping the profit margin down to 10 percent. 
A good range to budget for your salary is 5 to 15 percent of your gross revenue. If your profit margin is small at the moment, start low and give yourself room for an increase in the future. Accounting for your employee costs and your own wages is important to keeping your budget accurate. Being realistic and taking all aspects of employee expenses into consideration is part of how to calculate the percentage of salaries in your business budget.
(See table 5.) Retirement and savings costs were higher both in amount and as a proportion of total compensation for union workers ($4.05 and 8.7 percent of total compensation) than for nonunion workers (96 cents and 3.2 percent). Costs for management, professional, and related workers were $2.56 per hour worked (4.6 percent of total compensation), compared to $1.94 for natural resources, construction, and maintenance workers (5.7 percent) and 24 cents for service workers (1.6 percent).
Calculate your salaries as a percentage of operating expenses by dividing the total salary expenses by your total operating expenses. As an example, if you pay $145,000 in total operating expenses with a salary expense of $41,000, 28 percent of your operating expenses are salaries. A report by the Society for Human Resource Management indicates that retail industry businesses may have a salary to expense percentage of as little as 18 percent. As an example, if your company's gross revenue equals $320,000 and the total salaries for the same period are $38,600, your company spends 12 percent of all monies earned on salaries. Second Wind Consultants, Inc recommends a range between 15 to 30