The construction of the horse trailer ramps isn’t so difficult and won’t take much time. 1  Place the angle iron flat side as the top side. 2  Weld “A” to “B” in order to form a rectangle. 3  After that you’ve to weld “C” through the center of the frame length-wise. 4  This will add support. 1 First of all, measure the distance starting from the ground up to the trailer floor. 2  Measure the height and width of your trailer door. 3  As a result you will have the ramp width. 4  It should be narrower than the width of the trailer door in the width of a half an inch. 5  Get the proper ramp slope.
Product Summary. Add your own decking material (plywood recommended) in the width you want (max. 48in.) and you'll have a ramp designed to load anything that rolls. Ideal for scooters, wheelchairs, strollers and more. Side guide rails add strength and prevent anything from rolling off the side. Hinges allow ramp to be folded in half for compact storage
The only thing for the horse to do is to walk right up your ramp, so the animal shouldn’t step up or back the trailer up to a hill in order to have a level approach. Finally, it will be impossible for the horse to hit the leg on the trailer back. Some horse owners prefer to build the horse trailer ramps by themselves. 1 First of all, measure the distance starting from the ground up to the trailer floor. 2  Measure the height and width of your trailer door. 3  As a result you will have the ramp width. 4  It should be narrower than the width of the trailer door in the width of a half an inch. 5  Get the proper ramp slope.
Re: Looking to build some trailer ramps .... If you are sticking with aluminum, might be cheaper and faster to go with these guys. I got the 5' long 5k lb ramps a few years back, and love them. I think they have some versions that are made for permanent mounting. All kinds of weight ranges. Re: Looking to build some trailer ramps .... It's hard to build a trailer cheaper than you can buy one already made. Unfortunately sometimes they aren't built as nice as you would have built your own.
Instructions. Buy some heavy gauge metal plating or construction grade metal purlings for the trailer ramp. Do not buy thin sheet metal. The trailer ramp must be able to stand the weight of the vehicle plus more for safety. Cut the heavy gauge metal plating or construction grade metal purlings into two strips. Make each of them 4 feet long and 16 inches wide. This will accommodate more vehicle tire widths and trailer heights. 
Summary. These trailer ramps are constructed from lightweight aluminum and have a 2000 lb weight capacity. Each rung on these ramps have a serrated texture to provide traction for wet/ muddy tires plus raised sides that guide the tires on the ramp. These straight aluminum trailer ramps can be used to load an ATV, riding lawn mower, golf cart, UTV or other 4 wheeled equipment. These straight aluminum ramps are 60 long x 11-1/2 wide and constructed from lightweight 6061-T6 aluminum that will not rust.
The ramp configuration and the materials you use will impact how you build the ramp. Talk to your local municipality to determine if a building permit, inspections and any other relevant information are needed to build a safe wheelchair ramp. 
Boat owners use a winch to pull their boat onto the trailer. You can install one on a utility trailer, too. It'll save your back and eliminate the need for a helper. Just wrap the strap around the heavy object and crank it up the ramp toward the front of the trailer. A winch with a 20-ft. pull strap and hook costs about $35 - $40. Bolt it to the trailer A-frame or tongue.
You can train your horses to use either. For example, the horse trailer ramps seem to be more popular on the East coast of the USA. In Texas the step up is more frequently spotted. Europeans mainly use ramps. In some special cases it is necessary to use a ramp because of the special needs of your horse. 1 First of all, measure the distance starting from the ground up to the trailer floor. 2  Measure the height and width of your trailer door. 3  As a result you will have the ramp width. 4  It should be narrower than the width of the trailer door in the width of a half an inch. 5  Get the proper ramp slope.
Either type work just as well with a Race Ramp Trailer Ramp. If your current stock trailer ramps have an additional fold down Ramp, we suggest you either fold it up, or remove it altogether. First, you'll want to measure the length of your current stock trailer ramps/door. Simply measure from end to end. Length of Door: Next, measure the height of your Trailer. Make sure to measure on the top side of where your current stock trailer ramps/door hinge, down the to the ground. Height to Door: Now measure the thickness of your Trailer Ramp/Door.