The dachshund (UK /ˈdaeksənd/ ˈdæksənd OR /us/ ˈDɑːKSHʊNT-dahks huunt OR /us/ ;) ˈdɑːksənt is a-short, legged-long bodied dog breed belonging to the hound. family Dachshunds in the same litter may be born in different coat colors. Dachshunds also come in piebald. The dominant color is red, the most common along with black and tan. Two-colored dogs can be black, wild boar, chocolate, fawn, with tan points, or markings over the eyes, ears, paws, and tail, of tan or cream.
A German breed, the name means 'badger dog' and it was bred for hunting small game. There are three coat types: smooth (or shorthaired), longhaired and wire-haired, found in black, shades of brown, brindled and dappled. A miniature variety (less than 10 lb) is also bred in all three coat types. 
Badger-baiting or badger baiting is a blood sport in which badgers are baited with dogs. A baiting session typically results in the death of the badger, and possibly serious injuries to the dogs. The badger's long front claws may be filed off; the canine teeth may be pulled out; the animal's limbs or jaw may be broken with a shovel. To inhibit the badger's movement, there are rumours that the tendons in its hind legs may be cut. Griffiths et al. mention nailing badgers to the ground by the tail.
The badger is capable of producing a painful bite, and some badgers are also known to carry a type of rabies.The most commonly known badgers are the white and black striped badgers in western Europe. Badgers are thought to be related to otters and weasels and can often grow to nearly a meter in length! 
The badger (Taxidea taxus) is a stocky, medium-sized mammal with a broad head, a short, thick neck, short legs, and a short, bushy tail. Its front legs are stout and muscular, and its front claws are long. 
I let my dog run in the grain fields up the road, and in the Fall the farmer advised me that there is a fresh badger burrow on the edge of the field. What would the likely outcome be if my 80 pound Black Lab came across this animal. Update: . . My cats also hunt this field ......... Report Abuse. If your dog decided to have a tussle with the badger your dog would lose I'm afraid, they are very mean animals, quite dangerous. The farmer was trying to warn you to keep your dog away or risk him being killed. Badgers don't run they attack.
badger dog-small long-bodied short-legged German breed of dog having a short sleek coat and long drooping ears; suited for following game into burrows. dachshund, dachsie. hunting dog-a dog used in hunting game. sausage dog, sausage hound-informal term. 
Badger. The badger (Taxidea taxus) was designated the official state animal of Wisconsin in 1957. Wisconsin's nickname is The Badger State because miners dug tunnels into hillsides searching for lead in the 1800's, reminding people of badgers. 
The noun BADGER DOG has 1 sense: 1. small long-bodied short-legged German breed of dog having a short sleek coat and long drooping ears; suited for following game into burrows. Familiarity information: BADGER DOG used as a noun is very rare.
The badger is a usually quiet and docile creature in its own domain; however, when cornered or when a threat is perceived it can possess impressive courage. Weighing up to thirty-five pounds when fully grown, the badger has an extraordinarily dangerous bite, which it is willing to use recklessly when threatened. The badger's long front claws may be filed off; the canine teeth may be pulled out; the animal's limbs or jaw may be broken with a shovel. To inhibit the badger's movement, there are rumours that the tendons in its hind legs may be cut. Griffiths et al. mention nailing badgers to the ground by the tail.