Brief definition. In the UK, a PhD stands for ‘Doctor of Philosophy’, sometimes referred to as a ‘doctorate’. It is the highest level of degree that a student can achieve. At some institutions, including Oxford University, a Doctor of Philosophy is known as a DPhil. It is distinct from professional doctorates such as an Engineering Doctorate (EngD). An undergraduate degree is a minimum requirement and many will also require a master’s degree (such as an MA, MSc or MRes). Some funded PhD’s will be on a 1+3 basis, which is one year of a master’s plus three years of PhD funding.
In general, however, the PhD is the highest level of degree a student can achieve (with some exceptions, which are covered below). It usually follows a master’s degree, although some institutions also allow students to progress straight to a PhD from their bachelor’s degree. Most institutions require that candidates hold an honors degree or a master’s degree with high academic standing, along with a bachelor’s degree with at least upper second-class honors. In some cases, you can also apply for a PhD simply on the basis of your master’s degree grades.
The degree varies considerably according to the country, institution, and time period, from entry-level research degrees to higher doctorates. A person who attains a doctorate of philosophy is automatically awarded the academic title of doctor. Detailed requirements for the award of a Ph.D. degree vary throughout the world and even from school to school. It is usually required for the student to hold an Honours degree or a Master's Degree with high academic standing, in order to be considered for a Ph.D. program.
Examples of how people use masters and doctorates. Below are examples of how a masters degree and a doctorate are used in two different fields of study, social work and business. If you want to go to graduate school to study social work, you can study at the masters level or the Ph.D. level. The higher the degree, the longer it takes to earn and the more specialized is its focus. For that reason, it's best to first look at what a doctorate is. Once you understand the relatively narrow scope and use of a doctorate, you may have an easier time understanding the masters by comparison.
A doctorate (from Latin docere, to teach) or doctor's degree (from Latin doctor, teacher) or doctoral degree is an academic degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.) awarded by universities that, in most countries, qualifies the holder to teach at the university level in the degree's field, or to work in a specific profession. The most common doctoral degree is Ph.D. Others include D.B.A. (Doctorate of Business Administration), DIT (Doctorate of Information Technology), LLD (Doctorate in Laws) and D. Sc (Doctorate in Science).
PhD is short for Doctor of Philosophy (also abbreviated to DPhil or Dr.Philos). This is an academic or professional degree that, in most countries, qualifies the degree holder to teach their chosen subject at university level or to work in a specialized position in their chosen field. Most institutions require that candidates hold an honors degree or a master’s degree with high academic standing, along with a bachelor’s degree with at least upper second-class honors. In some cases, you can also apply for a PhD simply on the basis of your master’s degree grades.
A Doctor of Philosophy of the University of Oxford in full academic dress. A Doctor of Philosophy degree (often abbreviated Ph.D. , PhD, D.Phil. , or DPhil) or a Doctorate of Philosophy, from the Latin Doctor Philosophiae, is a type of doctorate awarded by universities in many countries. Detailed requirements for the award of a Ph.D. degree vary throughout the world and even from school to school. It is usually required for the student to hold an Honours degree or a Master's Degree with high academic standing, in order to be considered for a Ph.D. program.
In Egypt, the doctorate (abbreviated as M.D.) is equivalent to the Ph.D. degree. To earn an M.D. in a science specialty, one must have a master's degree (M.Sc.) (or two diplomas before the introduction of M.Sc. degree in Egypt) before applying. The most common doctoral degree is Ph.D. Others include D.B.A. (Doctorate of Business Administration), DIT (Doctorate of Information Technology), LLD (Doctorate in Laws) and D. Sc (Doctorate in Science).
Traditionally, a PhD involves three to four years of full-time study (can be six years or more if studied part-time), in which the student completes a substantial piece of original research presented as a thesis or dissertation. Most institutions require that candidates hold an honors degree or a master’s degree with high academic standing, along with a bachelor’s degree with at least upper second-class honors. In some cases, you can also apply for a PhD simply on the basis of your master’s degree grades.