1 A molecule of a DNA polymerase binds to one strand of the DNA and begins moving along it in the 3' to 5' direction, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand of nucleotides and reforming a double helix. 2  In eukaryotes, this molecule is called DNA polymerase epsilon (ε). 1 A portion of the double helix is unwound by a helicase. 2 
BIOLOGY IS MY BASIC SUBJECT. DNA replication is a process during which DNA double helix opens like a zipper, new nucleotides are added along both strands of DNA by enzyme DNA polmerase and at last two molecules of DNA are formed. It takes place in S phase of interphase. 4 people found this useful.
The structure of DNA lends itself easily to DNA replication. Each side of the double helix runs in opposite (anti-parallel) directions. The beauty of this structure is that it can unzip down the middle and each side can serve as a pattern or template for the other side (called semi-conservative replication). DNA Replication. ­DNA carries the information for making all of the cell's proteins. These pro­teins implement all of the functions of a living organism and determine the organism'­s characteristics. When the cell reproduces, it has to pass all of this information on to the daughter cells.
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. 1 Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 2  This type of replication is called discontinuous as the Okazaki fragments will need to be joined up later.
1 One of the strands is oriented in the 3’ to 5’ direction (towards the replication fork), this is the leading strand. 2  The other strand is oriented in the 5’ to 3’ direction (away from the replication fork), this is the lagging strand. 1 Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 2  This type of replication is called discontinuous as the Okazaki fragments will need to be joined up later.
DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. DNA usually exists as a double-stranded structure, with both strands coiled together to form the characteristic double-helix. Each single strand of DNA is a chain of four types of nucleotides. Nucleotides in DNA contain a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate, and a nucleobase.
1 This sort of replication is called continuous. 2  Lagging strand: 3  Numerous RNA primers are made by the primase enzyme and bind at various points along the lagging strand. 4  Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 1 Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 2  This type of replication is called discontinuous as the Okazaki fragments will need to be joined up later.
1 The separation of the two single strands of DNA creates a ‘Y’ shape called a replication ‘fork’. 2  The two separated strands will act as templates for making the new strands of DNA. 3  One of the strands is oriented in the 3’ to 5’ direction (towards the replication fork), this is the leading strand. 1 Chunks of DNA, called Okazaki fragments, are then added to the lagging strand also in the 5’ to 3’ direction. 2  This type of replication is called discontinuous as the Okazaki fragments will need to be joined up later.
As discussed in Chapter 3, DNA replication is a semiconservative process in which each parental strand serves as a template for the synthesis of a new complementary daughter strand. Okazaki fragments are then synthesized via extension of these RNA primers by DNA polymerase. An important consequence of such RNA priming is that newly synthesized Okazaki fragments contain an RNA-DNA joint, the discovery of which provided critical evidence for the role of RNA primers in DNA replication.
DNA replication is the process of producing two identical replicas from one original DNA molecule. This biological process occurs in all living organisms and is the basis for biological inheritance. DNA usually exists as a double-stranded structure, with both strands coiled together to form the characteristic double-helix. Each single strand of DNA is a chain of four types of nucleotides. Nucleotides in DNA contain a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate, and a nucleobase.