Promote Your Server. Domain controller promotion is done through the dcpromo.exe command. Go remote with your server and then open the run dialog and run the command. Click next a couple times and then select the option to create a new controller for a new domain. Then select new domain forest. Next it is best to select to set up DNS on the local machine
This article describes how to promote or demote a domain controller to a stand-alone server in Windows 2000. Promoting a server to a domain controller is the process of installing Active Directory Services on that server. Demoting a domain controller removes Active Directory and switches to using a local User Accounts System (UAS). 
On Microsoft Servers, a domain controller (DC) is a server that responds to security authentication requests (logging in, checking permissions, etc.) within a Windows domain. Windows Server can be one of three kinds: Active Directory domain controllers, Active Directory member servers and Windows Workgroup stand-alone servers. The term Active Directory Server is sometimes used by Microsoft as synonymous to Domain Controller. The term is discouraged.
Specifically, a domain controller is a computer running Windows 2000 Server that has been configured using the Active Directory Installation wizard, which installs and configures components that provide Active Directory directory services to network users and computers. The first is Active Directory at its most abstract, that is, Active Directory as a namespace that is integrated with the Internet's Domain Name System (DNS). The second is Active Directory at its most mundane, that is, as the software that makes a server into a domain controller.
1 If you have set up a domain controller previously with Windows 2000 Server, or Windows Server 2003, then you would be familiar with the. 2  The system will start checking if Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) binaries are installed, then will start installing them. 1 In the Additional Domain Controller Options page, you can select to install the Domain Name Service to your server. 2  Note that the First domain controller in a forest must be a Global Catalog that's why the checkbox beside Global Catalog is selected and it cannot be cleared.
up vote 0 down vote. A domain controller provides authentication services for a network of Windows machines. See the Wikipedia article for a brief introduction. If you need to build one, you can do so with a Windows server (any of a variety of flavors, e.g. Windows 2003 Server) or you can run Samba on a Linux box. Once a domain controller is configured in a company, office or a building, it takes over the responsibility of responding to users’ security authentication requests, such as checking permissions, logging in, etc. When a client computer joins a domain, any user can login to the domain controller, using that computer.
To prepare for the Active Directory installation, install the DNS Server service on the server that you want to make a domain controller and gather the information that you must supply to the Active Directory Installation Wizard. Install the DNS Server service. Similarly to how you can install Active Directory to turn a Windows 2000based server into a domain controller, you can remove Active Directory and turn a Windows 2000based domain controller back into a server. This process removes most of the references to the domain controller from the directory.
You have to add a domain controller to your network when you decide that it is cost-effective for your organization to have the unified system of credentials, users, groups, and permissions that an Active Directory domain provides, in addition to the machine and user policies provided by Group Policy. Once a domain controller is configured in a company, office or a building, it takes over the responsibility of responding to users’ security authentication requests, such as checking permissions, logging in, etc. When a client computer joins a domain, any user can login to the domain controller, using that computer.
You can also integrate the DNS server role with Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) to store and replicate DNS zones. This makes multimaster replication possible, along with more secure transmission of DNS data. In turn, AD DS requires DNS so that clients can locate domain controllers. Applies To: Windows Server 2008. By using the Domain Name System (DNS) server role, you can provide a primary name resolution process for users on your network. The name resolution process enables users to locate computers on the network by querying for a user-friendly computer name instead of an IP address.
Abbreviated as DC, domain controller is a server on a Microsoft Windows or Windows NT network that is responsible for allowing host access to Windows domain resources. The domain controllers in your network are the centerpiece of your Active Directory directory service. It stores user account information, authenticates users and enforces security policy for a Windows domain.