Mastercam would appear to be about 50% more that OneCNC and OneCNC has no maintenance fees. Thanks to all that responded with price information. Spence Attached (I think) is a picture of a part and the tool path I made in CAD to cut with a constant 0.050 axial engagement. 
It costs approximately $90,000 more a year to house an inmate on death row, than in the general prison population or $57.5 million annually. The Attorney General devotes about 15% of his budget, or $11 million annually to death penalty cases. The cost of a system in which the number of death-eligible crimes was significantly narrowed would be $130 million per year. The cost of a system which imposes a maximum penalty of lifetime incarceration instead of the death penalty would be $11.5 million per year. Read the report.
Originally Posted by rkucbel1 I purchased OneCNC Lathe express for 1800 USD about a month ago. I have XR3 mill professional that I plan on upgrading to XR4 and got an upgrade price of 780 USD. cool 1800 $. Originally Posted by rkucbel1. I purchased OneCNC Lathe express for 1800 USD about a month ago. You do get support via access to the OneCNC Forum, and there are a lot of knowledgeable people there as well. You could pay annually for the phone support, but it's actually cheaper to upgrade. Originally Posted by rkucbel1. There is no charge on transferring a used seat.
That translates to $37.2 million for each of the state’s five executions since the state reenacted the death penalty. The study estimates that the average cost to Maryland taxpayers for reaching a single death sentence is $3 million - $1.9 million more than the cost of a non-death penalty case. The study counted death penalty case costs through to execution and found that the median death penalty case costs $1.26 million. Non-death penalty cases were counted through to the end of incarceration and were found to have a median cost of $740,000.
Executing all of the people currently on death row, or waiting for them to die there of other causes, will cost California an estimated $4 billion more than if they had been sentenced to die in prison of disease, injury, or old age; California death penalty trials have cost as much as $10.9 million. The cost of a system in which the number of death-eligible crimes was significantly narrowed would be $130 million per year. The cost of a system which imposes a maximum penalty of lifetime incarceration instead of the death penalty would be $11.5 million per year. Read the report.
What's nice about a used seat is that you can get upgrades at the same price as if you were upgrading from an original. I did the same, and recently upgraded to XR4 Expert. You do get support via access to the OneCNC Forum, and there are a lot of knowledgeable people there as well. You could pay annually for the phone support, but it's actually cheaper to upgrade. Originally Posted by rkucbel1. There is no charge on transferring a used seat.
Texas death penalty cases cost more than non-capital cases. Each death penalty case in Texas costs taxpayers about $2.3 million. That is about three times the cost of imprisoning someone in a single cell at the highest security level for 40 years. (Executions Cost Texas Millions, Dallas Morning News, March 8, 1992). The study counted death penalty case costs through to execution and found that the median death penalty case costs $1.26 million. Non-death penalty cases were counted through to the end of incarceration and were found to have a median cost of $740,000.
Average Wedding Cost. The average wedding cost in the United States is $26,444. Couples typically spend between $19,833 and $33,055 but, most couples spend less than $10,000. This does not include cost for a honeymoon. Understanding wedding cost now can help you with your wedding budget later. Enter your US zip code to get an idea of how much other couples spent on their wedding in your area. 
I purchased XR3 Mill 3D Advavntage a year-and-a-half ago second-hand for $1900. Not too long ago, I upgraded to XR4 Mill 3D Expert. The cost was about $3050. So this was for a move up one generation, and two levels... You do get support via access to the OneCNC Forum, and there are a lot of knowledgeable people there as well. You could pay annually for the phone support, but it's actually cheaper to upgrade. Originally Posted by rkucbel1. There is no charge on transferring a used seat.
A Seattle University study examining the costs of the death penalty in Washington found that each death penalty case cost an average of $1 million more than a similar case where the death penalty was not sought ($3.07 million, versus $2.01 million). The study counted death penalty case costs through to execution and found that the median death penalty case costs $1.26 million. Non-death penalty cases were counted through to the end of incarceration and were found to have a median cost of $740,000.