Fireworks are a class of explosive pyrotechnic devices used for aesthetic, cultural, and religious purposes. A fireworks event (also called a fireworks show or pyrotechnics) is a display of the effects produced by firework devices. 
The goal of a firecracker is to create a controlled explosion. A sparkler, on the other hand, burns over a long period of time (up to a minute) and produces a brilliant shower of sparks. Sometimes sparklers are called 'snowballs' in reference to the ball of sparks that surrounds the burning part of the sparkler. Sparkler Chemistry. A sparkler consists of several substances: 1  An oxidizer. 2  A fuel. 3  Iron, steel, aluminum, or other metal powder. 4  A combustible binder
Click to Enlarge. It’s Fireworks Night here in the UK tomorrow, which means fireworks (obviously), bonfires and sparklers. We’ve looked at fireworks in a previous post, so this time around it’s time to take a look at the chemicals that go into producing sparklers, and their various roles. In sparklers, there are three main components to the composition: a metal fuel, an oxidiser, and a binder. We summarised some of the different compounds that can be used for this purpose in the older post on the colours of fireworks. Of course, the metal powder and the oxidiser would be useless without a way to bind them together into a paste that can then be added onto the metal rod that forms our sparkler.
The fuel and oxidizer are proportioned, along with the other chemicals, so that the sparkler burns slowly rather than exploding like a firecracker. It is very common for fireworks to contain aluminum, iron, steel, zinc or magnesium dust in order to create bright, shimmering sparks. The metal flakes heat up until they are incandescent and shine brightly or, at a high enough temperature, actually burn. A variety of chemicals can be added to create colors.
Here's an element-by-element look at what is involved in your average firework: Aluminum-Aluminum is used to produce silver and white flames and sparks. It is a common component of sparklers. Antimony-Antimony is used to create firework glitter effects. The heat of the metal determines the color of the sparks. Lithium-Lithium is a metal that is used to impart a red color to fireworks. Lithium carbonate, in particular, is a common colorant. Magnesium-Magnesium burns a very bright white, so it is used to add white sparks or improve the overall brilliance of a firework. Oxygen-Fireworks include oxidizers, which are substances that produce oxygen in order for burning to occur. The oxidizers are usually nitrates, chlorates, or perchlorate
A variety of chemicals can be added to create colors. The fuel and oxidizer are proportioned, along with the other chemicals, so that the sparkler burns slowly rather than exploding like a firecracker. Once one end of the sparkler is ignited, it burns progressively to the other end. Sometimes sparklers are called 'snowballs' in reference to the ball of sparks that surrounds the burning part of the sparkler. Sparkler Chemistry. A sparkler consists of several substances: 1  An oxidizer. 2  A fuel.
Sulfur-Sulfur is a component of black powder. It is found in a firework's propellant/fuel. Strontium-Strontium salts impart a red color to fireworks. Strontium compounds are also important for stabilizing fireworks mixtures. Titanium-Titanium metal can be burned as powder or flakes to produce silver sparks. The heat of the metal determines the color of the sparks. Lithium-Lithium is a metal that is used to impart a red color to fireworks. Lithium carbonate, in particular, is a common colorant. Magnesium-Magnesium burns a very bright white, so it is used to add white sparks or improve the overall brilliance of a firework. Oxygen-Fireworks include oxidizers, which are substances that produce oxygen in order for burning to occur. The oxidizers are usually nitrates, chlorates, or perchlorate
One of the most beautiful and entertaining uses of fire occurs in firework displays. Fireworks need a source of combustible material for energy such as black powder, a mixture of charcoal, sulfur, and saltpeter (an old name for potassium nitrate), or smokeless powder such as cellulose nitrate. In addition, fireworks contain substances that give off bright, colorful light when heated.