Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Florida is know for being one of the top citrus capitals, but there are also other foods it's known for: Avocados Star Fruit/Carambola Paw Paw/Papaya Passion Fruit Spiny Lobster Stone Crabs Coconut Key Lime Kumquat Hearts of Palm Mango. Source(s): http://www.southfloridavacation.com/flor... 
How far is it from Miami Florida to Sunrise Florida? There are two towns in Florida named Sunrise and the closest one to Miami is west of Fort Lauderdale and about 33 miles from Miami. The second Sunrise is on the Gulf Coast nea … r Bradenton and 220 miles from Miami. 
Florida is the largest orange and citrus fruit producing state in the United States; citrus hence finds its way into many Florida foods, from cebiche (raw fish marinated in citrus juices), to avocado grapefruit salad. Florida seafood runs the gamut from gulf shrimp to mahi-mahi, from snapper, tuna, pompano and swordfish to clam, lobster and even alligator. The alligator, in fact, turns the usual food chain upside down; alligator attacks on humans are on the rise in the state.
Florida's Food Festivals. Florida is known as the nation’s winter salad bowl, with a whopping 80 percent of US fresh produce grown in the state between January and March. And nearly all year-round, something comes into season. All that natural goodness has inspired a delicious menu of food festivals across the state
• Florida Specialties: Oranges and Grapefruit. Florida oranges are famous, in fact, state growers have gone so far as to patent Florida Oranges to make oranges labelled from Florida really come from Florida. Oranges grown in Florida are grown mostly for the juice market, but plenty of out-of-hand oranges are available for locals to eat. Florida is awash in farmers markets. Not all markets are equal in terms of local foods, though, so be sure to find a market that requires farmers to sell only their own produce. For a complete list of farmers markets in Florida, see this list from the Florida Department of Agriculture.
Typical Cuban-influenced dishes in South Florida include arroz con pollo (rice with chicken), fried plantains, white rice and black beans, and the mojito, a cocktail made from rum, lime, and mint. Dishes from other Latin American and Caribbean influences include arepas, empanadas, and Jamaican jerk chicken. Conch fritters are made with chopped conch meat and vegetables like sweet peppers and hot peppers, onions, and celery, which are then fried into small balls. Swamp Cabbage. Swamp cabbage, also known as hearts of palm, comes from the core of the sabal palm trees that are common in Florida.
Floribbean Cuisine. Floribbean cuisine is concentrated in South Florida, particularly Miami, and is a fusion of many cultures, especially from Cuba, the Bahamas, Jamaica, Haiti, Colombia, Panama, and Puerto Rico. Conch fritters are made with chopped conch meat and vegetables like sweet peppers and hot peppers, onions, and celery, which are then fried into small balls. Swamp Cabbage. Swamp cabbage, also known as hearts of palm, comes from the core of the sabal palm trees that are common in Florida.
FLORIDA FOODS. It's no secret that Florida is one of the citrus capitals of the world. Oranges and grapefruits are abundant throughout the state. Bananas and pineapples are classified as tropical fruit and are also grown here. However, Florida also produces some unique and delicious foods and fruits with which you may not be as familiar. AvocadoPear-shaped tropical fruit. Are a very nutritious fruit for the body and the skin. (If you don9t have a food processor, place the crackers in a large plastic bag: seal and then crush the crackers with a rolling pin.) Add the melted butter and sugar and pulse or stir until combined. Press the mixture into the bottom and sides of the pan, forming a neat border around the edge.
Click to view full Infographic. The cuisine of Florida is one of the exotic styles of food in the United States, and is as diverse as the people who live there, with strong influences from the rest of the South, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Conch fritters are made with chopped conch meat and vegetables like sweet peppers and hot peppers, onions, and celery, which are then fried into small balls. Swamp Cabbage. Swamp cabbage, also known as hearts of palm, comes from the core of the sabal palm trees that are common in Florida.