Options include: Medications that block uric acid production. Drugs called xanthine oxidase inhibitors, including allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) and febuxostat (Uloric), limit the amount of uric acid your body makes. This may lower your blood's uric acid level and reduce your risk of gout. Side effects of allopurinol include a rash and low blood counts.
About Gout. Gout is a metabolic disorder which causes inflammation of the joints. In acute cases, some joints swell up within just a few hours and become very sensitive to pain. The inflammation is triggered by tiny needle-shaped crystals of uric acid that build up mostly in the joints. A condition marked by increased levels of uric acid in the blood, joints, and tissue. The buildup of uric acid in the joints and tissues causes arthritis and inflammation. PubMed Health Glossary.
Gout is an extremely painful form of inflammatory arthritis caused by an accumulation of uric acid crystals in the joints. These crystals can also deposit in other tissues throughout the body, such as the kidney, which can lead to kidney stones. 
These medicines may include: 1  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, indomethacin, or naproxen. 2  Colchicine. 3  Corticosteroids, which may be given in pills or as a shot for cases of gout that don't respond to NSAIDs or colchicines. This can reduce how often you have gout attacks and how severe they are. These medicines may include: 1  Uricosuric agents, to increase elimination of uric acid by the kidneys. 2  Xanthine oxidase inhibitors, to decrease production of uric acid by the body.
1 Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, indomethacin, or naproxen. 2  Do not take aspirin, which should never be used to relieve pain during a gout attack. 3  Aspirin may change uric acid levels in the blood and may make the attack worse. This can reduce how often you have gout attacks and how severe they are. These medicines may include: 1  Uricosuric agents, to increase elimination of uric acid by the kidneys. 2  Xanthine oxidase inhibitors, to decrease production of uric acid by the body.
Long-term medicines. Long-term treatment uses medicines to lower uric acid levels in the blood. This can reduce how often you have gout attacks and how severe they are. These medicines may include: 1  Uricosuric agents, to increase elimination of uric acid by the kidneys. 2  Xanthine oxidase inhibitors, to decrease production of uric acid by the body.
1 Medication that improves uric acid removal. 2  Probenecid (Probalan) improves your kidneys' ability to remove uric acid from your body. 3  This may lower your uric acid levels and reduce your risk of gout, but the level of uric acid in your urine is increased. 4  Side effects include a rash, stomach pain and kidney stones. Drugs called xanthine oxidase inhibitors, including allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) and febuxostat (Uloric), limit the amount of uric acid your body makes. This may lower your blood's uric acid level and reduce your risk of gout. Side effects of allopurinol include a rash and low blood counts.
1 Probenecid (Probalan) improves your kidneys' ability to remove uric acid from your body. 2  This may lower your uric acid levels and reduce your risk of gout, but the level of uric acid in your urine is increased. 3  Side effects include a rash, stomach pain and kidney stones. Drugs called xanthine oxidase inhibitors, including allopurinol (Aloprim, Lopurin, Zyloprim) and febuxostat (Uloric), limit the amount of uric acid your body makes. This may lower your blood's uric acid level and reduce your risk of gout. Side effects of allopurinol include a rash and low blood counts.
Gout is a painful condition that occurs when the bodily waste product uric acid is deposited as needle-like crystals in the joints and/or soft tissues. In the joints, these uric acid crystals cause inflammatory arthritis, which in turn leads to intermittent swelling, redness, heat, pain, and stiffness in the joints. 
These medicines may include: 1  Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, indomethacin, or naproxen. 2  Do not take aspirin, which should never be used to relieve pain during a gout attack. 3  Aspirin may change uric acid levels in the blood and may make the attack worse. 4  Be safe with medicines. This can reduce how often you have gout attacks and how severe they are. These medicines may include: 1  Uricosuric agents, to increase elimination of uric acid by the kidneys. 2  Xanthine oxidase inhibitors, to decrease production of uric acid by the body.