computer engineer-Computer Definition. A professional who has software, systems or network engineering experience. The term may also refer to an individual with an electrical engineering background, who is also proficient in computer science. Such a person could be involved in the design of hardware as well as software. 
computer engineer. A professional who has software, systems or network engineering experience. The term may also refer to an individual with an electrical engineering background, who is also proficient in computer science. Such a person could be involved in the design of hardware as well as software. See engineer. 
Related Terms. 1  software. 2  software engineering. 3  C++ Software Engineer. 4  CASE-Computer Aided Software Engineering. 5  accounting software. 6  systems software. 7  call center CRM software. 8  forms software. 9  software piracy. 10  engine. A software engineer is a licensed professional engineer who is schooled and skilled in the application of engineering discipline to the creation of software. A software engineer is often confused with a programmer, but the two are vastly different disciplines.
History of Computing. Before we had computer engineers or computer scientists to design and build computers, researchers from many disciplines, including physics, mathematics, and electrical engineering, worked to develop the first computing machines. 
Field Overview. Computer engineers work on components, devices, programs, algorithms and systems that are used in computers, and on techniques of computation, analysis and implementation that are applicable to single computers or to systems of computers. 
A railroad engineer working in his locomotive. The definition of an engineer is a person who uses science, math and creativity to solve technical problems. An example of an engineer is a person who designs a low cost system to produce a specific product. To engineer is defined as to create, plan, build or design a solution or a process. An example of to engineer is to create a new security software for a computer
Specific Duties of a Computer Engineer. A computer engineer has many specific duties relative to his/her job. One such duty is that the computer engineer must perform research regarding the computer operating systems. 
Definition of SOFTWARE ENGINEERING. : a branch of computer science that deals with the design, implementation, and maintenance of complex computer programs. — software engineer noun. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis
Computer science deals with the theoretical foundations of information and computation, together with practical techniques for the implementation and application of these foundations. Computer science is the scientific and practical approach to computation and its applications.