LinkedIn0. An Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) is recorded on your credit file for 6 years. During this time your credit rating will be negatively affected. Unfortunately your credit rating will not suddenly become good again after your Arrangement has ended and the record is taken off your file. This is important as Defaults and CCJs remain on your credit file for 6 years. If any were issued after the date of your IVA they will continue to give you a poor credit rating even after the record of the Arrangement has been taken off unless the dates are changed.
An IVA is not an easy way out of debt and has serious implications. It will appear on your credit report for a minimum of six years from the date of arrangement, and longer if the arrangement lasts more than six years. The agencies will then update the IVA entry on your credit report to show it has been 'completed'. The entry then stays on your credit report for six years from the date the IVA began. You might continue to experience difficulties getting credit and other financial services because you were in an IVA in the past.
How long it stays on your credit report: CCJs stay off your credit report if you pay your debt in full within 30 days of receiving the order. Otherwise, it will stay on your credit report for six years from the day of judgment, regardless of payment. It's suitable for non-homeowners on low incomes with qualifying debts of less than £15,000. How long it stays on your credit report: Although a DRO typically lasts a year, it will stay on your credit report for six years from the date the arrangement starts.
After 6 years. Your IVA should be removed from your credit file automatically after 6 years, but there is no guarantee. When your IVA completes your Insolvency Practitioner will send you a 'Certificate of completion'. You should then send a copy to each Credit Reference Agency to ensure they bring your file up to date. How an IVA damages your credit file. Once you enter into an IVA your credit file will be affected for a total of 6 years. Creditors keep track of an individual's credit file and refer to it when assessing their current creditworthiness
How long it stays on your credit report: Defaulted accounts stay on your report for six years from the default date, regardless of repayment. Card closed in good standing. Unlike the above transgressions, an account that has been run well, with no defaults, would be viewed positively by lenders. It's suitable for non-homeowners on low incomes with qualifying debts of less than £15,000. How long it stays on your credit report: Although a DRO typically lasts a year, it will stay on your credit report for six years from the date the arrangement starts.
An IVA will affect your credit rating as it will stay on your credit file for six years after the date of commencement (typically one year after your IVA has been completed). However, this needs to be put into context: 
Your IVA will stay on your credit file for six years from the day it started. So if your IVA was five years long then the record of it will only stay on for a further 12 months after the IVA ends. 
For example your payments to your mobile phone (if you’re on a contract) and electricity companies will also appear in your credit report. Your IVA will show on your credit file for six years from the day it started. So if your IVA was five years long it will only be listed on your credit file for a further 12 months. The idea behind asking creditors to correct the dates on default notices is to make sure that these too will be gone within 12 months. Post IVA credit file clean up. It’s a happy day when your individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) finally ends, you’re well and truly free and clear and your money is your own again. You can also take satisfaction from the fact that you have done your best by your creditors.