Such is the case with foods high in animal protein. The work of researchers such as Dr. T. Colin Campbell of Cornell University has demonstrated that a diet high in animal protein is correlated with higher incidences of cancer and cardiovascular disease in humans. But, before striking out animal-protein foods altogether, such as milk, meat and eggs, it is best to analyze how much animal protein and oxysterols these foods contribute to one's diet. One can then decide how much of these foods, if any, to eat.
Fish and shellfish provide high-quality animal protein. A 3-ounce serving of canned tuna has 22 grams of protein, and a 3-ounce serving of cooked salmon supplies 19 grams. Fish and shellfish provide heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, and they are low in cholesterol-raising saturated fat. Skinless, white-meat chicken is rich in animal protein, providing 27 grams of protein per 3-ounce serving. Skinless turkey breast is also a lean source of
Milk, Cheese, and Yogurt. Not only are dairy foods like milk, cheese, and yogurt excellent sources of protein, but they also contain valuable calcium, and many are fortified with vitamin D. Choose skim or low-fat dairy to keep bones and teeth strong and help prevent osteoporosis. Eggs are one of the least expensive forms of protein. Seafood is an excellent source of protein because it's usually low in fat. Fish such as salmon is a little higher in fat, but it is the heart-healthy kind: it has omega-3 fatty acids.
Meet Milk Protein: Whey and Casein. There are two types of protein found in dairy products: casein and whey protein. Thirty-eight percent of the solid matter in milk is made of protein. Of that total protein, 80 percent is casein and 20 percent is whey. Cheese is made mostly of casein, where most of the liquid whey found in milk has been filtered or strained out. But all dairy products contain casein, not just cheese. 
Although these foods are low in calories and fat, the amount of animal protein in such foods is around 80% by calorie! The recommended amount of protein for an adult diet is about 5% of one's maintenance calorie intake. But, before striking out animal-protein foods altogether, such as milk, meat and eggs, it is best to analyze how much animal protein and oxysterols these foods contribute to one's diet. One can then decide how much of these foods, if any, to eat.
What is Whey. Whey is a component of cow's milk that is isolated in the standard cheese-making process. Whey contains proteins, peptides (or protein segments), lactose (a type of sugar found only in milk), fat, salts and water. 
The skin is loaded with saturated fat, so remove skin before cooking. Not only are dairy foods like milk, cheese, and yogurt excellent sources of protein, but they also contain valuable calcium, and many are fortified with vitamin D. Choose skim or low-fat dairy to keep bones and teeth strong and help prevent osteoporosis. Eggs are one of the least expensive forms of protein. Seafood is an excellent source of protein because it's usually low in fat. Fish such as salmon is a little higher in fat, but it is the heart-healthy kind: it has omega-3 fatty acids.
I don't know that particular diet ... but cottage cheese is a dairy product that includes protein. All dairy products contain protein. If that special diet wants you to categorize cottege cheese differently than other dairy products (other milk and cheese products), they should clearly tell you that. It's both. Cottage cheese is a dairy product that has a bit of protein in it. However, I googled this diet and found the following guideline: www.prevention.com/weight-loss/diets/healthy-recipes-belly-melt-diet.
Sources of Complete Protein. Animal sources of protein are complete proteins, and some plant foods contain all essential amino acids. Sources of complete animal proteins include milk, yogurt, cheese, meat, poultry, fish, seafood and eggs. Soy protein is a plant-based source of high-quality, complete p
Plant versus Animal Protein. ANIMAL PROTEIN. Sources are meats of all kinds, butter, cheese, milk, cottage, cheese, yogurt, and eggs. In brief, protein is composed of Amino acids. If one is on Sinemet CR, which is an amino acid, any food that has protein in it, naturally has other amino acids in it