One of them is that your boss can’t make you work off the clock if you’re a non-exempt employee. In other words, if you aren’t management and you get paid by the hour, then you must be paid for anything, including meetings that you are required to attend. When you are an at-will employee, your boss can fire you for any reason she wants unless it’s protected by religious, sexual orientation, gender or disability laws. When you go to work for someone, you get into a contract with that employer.
The fact is that if your boss controls you and your time, then you must be paid for that right. Unless you have a contract that absolutely restricts your boss from asking to work on specific days, however, you may have to make that meeting on your normal day off. It does count towards your hours for the week though. When you are an at-will employee, your boss can fire you for any reason she wants unless it’s protected by religious, sexual orientation, gender or disability laws. When you go to work for someone, you get into a contract with that employer.
If you have to drive long distances to get back and forth to work, and it ends up taking up a large portion of your day off, ask your employer if you can attend via conference calls. Also, depending on your state's laws, your employer might be obligated to compensate you for driving time and mileage. 
Perhaps you can convince your supervisor to reschedule meetings. When you have another job and your boss schedules a mandatory meeting at the same time you're supposed to report to your second job, you may find yourself in a quandary. Because your secondary job might be the one that provides discretionary income, consider taking time off from that job to attend a meeting for your primary job, even if the meeting isn't mandatory. Alternatively, ask if you can attend the meeting at another time or if the meeting will be webcast.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, they can force you to work, but they cannot make you use a sick or vacation day. It's your right to simply refuse pay for the day. Edit: I should say, they can fire you if you refuse. Your boss gave you the time off, now he has to deal with whatever happens at work while your not there on his own. It's his responsibility to find someone to fill in, but he shouldn't be bugging you with his business problems on your scheduled day off.
Report Abuse. If it is part of your training and they can only do the meeting that one day they can ask you to come in for it but they must give you the time back or pay you overtime. If you don't show up for the meeting, you are going to be labeled a trouble maker. They are going to view your attitude as insubordinate and look for reasons to get rid of you in the future. If you like your job and they pay you well, then you need to attend the meeting. Otherwise you need to find a better job and quit.
Hello My boss wants me to come in for long meetings on my day off (I work part time). I have refused and I keep getting very stern emails about 'not being a team player' etc. Other members of staff are not coming in for them either, but I am the one that is being picked up on for this. Under the rules of the contract, I work three days a week, and then charge for any overtime I do in the evenings after my shifts. However, my boss wants me to come in on my day off and not charge for it.
If she wants to give me a different day off, tell me now so I can reschedule my appointments. If not, she can give me the meeting topics now so I am sure to get them. You could also wait until the day of the meeting then call and say you have no sitter, if you have young kids, or you're sick. 
Pick Your Battles. Just as you are free to quit if your boss makes you keep attending meetings on your days off, she can fire you if you don’t. Now she can’t come to your house and physically drag you to a meeting on your day off (or on any day for that matter). When you are an at-will employee, your boss can fire you for any reason she wants unless it’s protected by religious, sexual orientation, gender or disability laws. When you go to work for someone, you get into a contract with that employer.