In the six to eight weeks prior to race day, mix some race-pace running into your weekly schedule in the form of tempo runs (a continuous 4- to 8-mile run at your goal half-marathon pace), interval workouts at race pace, or long runs that finish at goal pace the last 2 to 4 miles when your legs are tired. 9. Scheduling a 5K three to four weeks into training and a 10K three to four weeks before your half marathon will keep you motivated and provide a nice boost to your fitness while also serving as an indicator as to how well your training is coming along.
1 Your longest half marathon training run should be 3 or 4 weeks out from race day. 2  A top session could be 90 minutes – 2 hours with the last 30 mins at your target race pace. 3  Two weekends before, reduce this long run to 75-90 minutes. 4  One week before it’s time to run just 60-70 minutes easy and enjoy the Sunday papers! 
Assuming you're doing 4 to 5 miles once a week, 12 weeks gives you plenty of time to build up to a 10- or 11-mile long run. You don't necessarily need to run 13.1 miles in training to be confident that you can finish the 13.1-mile race, yet you don't want your longest run to be just 8 miles. There are two distinct types of runners who ask this question: the first-time half marathon runner who runs just 2 to 3 days a week for 3 to 5 miles. On the other end of the spectrum is the runner who has raced several half marathons and wants to race faster.
All half-marathon training plans that range in length from 10, 14 or 16 weeks assume that you've already built a weekly mileage base of at least 15-20 miles. Your longest run should also be at least 5 miles. Anything less than this weekly mileage or longest run mileage will overwhelm your body's ability to acclimate. 
Decide if you are ready to run a half marathon. 1  Before you run a half marathon, you should be able to complete a 3-mile (5 km) jog or run at least 3 times per week. 2  At the very least, you should be able to run at a steady pace for 30 minutes. At 13.1 miles (about 21 km), a half marathon can be a highly rewarding challenge for athletes of any level. Half marathons are a popular choice for experienced runners preparing for their first marathon, but are an attainable goal for novice runners as well.
6. Increase your long run by 1 mile (1.6 km) every week when you reach the last 3 to 4 weeks of your training, so that you complete a 10-mile (16 km) run the week before your half marathon event. At 13.1 miles (about 21 km), a half marathon can be a highly rewarding challenge for athletes of any level. Half marathons are a popular choice for experienced runners preparing for their first marathon, but are an attainable goal for novice runners as well.
1. Lower your level of training the week before you run a half marathon. Reduce the distance of your runs to 2 to 4 miles (3.2 to 6.4 km) each, and spend less time cross training. At 13.1 miles (about 21 km), a half marathon can be a highly rewarding challenge for athletes of any level. Half marathons are a popular choice for experienced runners preparing for their first marathon, but are an attainable goal for novice runners as well.
Runners differ greatly in ability, but ideally before starting a marathon program, you should have been running about a year. You should be able to comfortably run distances between 3 and 6 miles. You should be training 3-5 days a week, averaging 15-25 miles a week. You should have run an occasional 5-K or half marathon race. It is possible to run a marathon with less of a training base (particularly if you come from another sport), but the higher your fitness level, the easier this 18-week program will be. 
Don't waste all your training by overworking yourself in the final week before your half marathon. You can't gain fitness in these last seven days before your 13.1-mile run, but you can tire yourself out so much that a top performance is out of reach. Your workout the week before a half marathon should feature mostly rest, a bit of cross training and some short runs so you feel springy, not slow, on race day. Running. Your long run a week before the race should be no more than 8 or 10 miles. For example, if you are racing on a Sunday, the prior Sunday is the day you do your last long run.