Education General-As a Pediatrician, you will ALWAYS be learning! After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (which will get you a BS, BA, or other Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medical School (which will get you an MD or DO degree). After this, you are a general doctor. Most of the time, these new doctors go on to learn a specialty in medicine, such as pediatrics. Becoming a Pediatrician: THE BOTTOM LINE! Many high school and college students are eager to learn more about what is involved in becoming a pediatrician. Of all of the inquiries we get at YourPediatrician.com, this is one of the most common questions we receive.
However, pre-med students wishing to become a pediatrician usually choose to major in an area of science, which allows them to get the proper prerequisite education needed for medical school. Schools offering Health Science degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Your undergraduate education helps to prepare you for entry into medical school and is one factor used to decide if you'll be granted admission or not. Medical schools are well-known for being highly selective in the students they admit.
Pediatricians are physicians who have specialized in pediatric medicine. The first step is to become a physician. This involves graduating from college and going to medical school. Medical school is typically a four year program, although there are some schools that offer a combined BS/MD or BS/DO degree in six years. 1 An MD or DO, a medical degree. 2  Pediatricians are doctors. 3  You would need a medical degree to start and then go on to specialize with further training in pediatrics. 4  Pediatricians need 4 years of undergraduate school followed by four more years of medical school, followed by 3 years of internship and residency.
Training to become a pediatrician requires a four-year undergraduate degree, four years of medical school, and three or more years of hands-on residency training. 
Best Answer: To become a pediatrician, you'll need four years of medical school and at least three years of residency (on-the-job training) in addition to a bachelor's degree. Pediatricians specialize in areas such as the heart problems of children so you might be in school longer. To be a pediatrician, you need a 4-year college degree in something (major in whatever you want, as long as you take the pre-med course sequence consisting of biology, chemistry, physics and math), 4 years of medical school, and a 3-year residency.
The first step in understanding how to become a pediatrician is accepting that this career choice will involve many years of schooling. The first level of schooling for a pediatrician, after graduation of high school, includes pursuing a four-year degree, also known as a bachelor s degree, at an accredited university. How to Become a Pediatrician. Becoming a pediatrician can be one of the most rewarding jobs in the medical community, both financially and patient wise. This type of doctor typically treats patients from infant age all the way up to the teenage years.
Obtain a high school diploma or pass the General Education Development (GED) test. This is the first step on the road to becoming a doctor. Classes like biology, physics, and chemistry will prepare you for the type of coursework you will be studying in medical school. Tips. 1  Keep in mind that you will need lots of patience to become a pediatrician. 2  If you want to be a pediatrician, never stop chasing your dreams, even if there are setbacks along the way.
1 Keep in mind that you will need lots of patience to become a pediatrician. 2  If you want to be a pediatrician, never stop chasing your dreams, even if there are setbacks along the way. 3  Consider taking out a student loan or applying for a scholarship to help pay for medical school, which can be very expensive. Tips. 1 
It takes 4 years of undergraduate education, 4 years of medical school, and 3 years of pediatric residency to become a general pediatrician, totaling at least 11 years. Further, most fellowship subspecialties last 3 years, increasing the time spent in training to about 14 years overall. 