1 Orin is an Anglican phonetic spelling of the given name Odran or Odhran meaning pale green in Irish. 2  Irish pronounce Odran as o-rawn, o-ren, and o-rin. 3  Orrin is a given name meaning pale-skinned or white in Scottish. 4  Oren is a given name meaning pine tree in Hebrew. Orin, or variants thereof, may refer to one of the following.
[ 2 syll. or-rin, orr-in ] The baby boy name Orrin is pronounced AO RRihN †. Orrin has its origins in the Celtic and Old Greek languages, and it is used largely in Irish and English. From Old Greek roots, its meaning is 'man of the mountains' - in this context, Orrin can be used in the English language. In addition, Orrin is a spelling variant of the English and Irish Oran in the Irish language. Variant forms of Orrin include the names Ore, Oren, Orin, Orran, Orren, Orryn, and Oryn. Orrin is rare as a baby name for boys. At the peak of its usage in 1915, 0.011% of baby boys were named Orrin.
Oren (Hebrew: אורן) is a masculine given name, meaning pine or ash in Hebrew. In the Book of Chronicles, Oren is one of the sons of Jerahmeel, the first-born of Hezron, along with Ram, Bunah, Ozem and Ahijah. 
[ 2 syll. o-rin, or-in ] The baby boy name Orin is pronounced as AO R-ehN †. Orin is of Celtic, Hebrew, and Old Greek origin, and it is used mainly in the Irish language. Orin is a variant spelling of the English and Irish Oran in the Irish language. Orin is also a variant form of the English and Hebrew Oren. Orin is also a variant form of the Irish and English Orrin. Orin is unusual as a baby name for boys
The name Orin is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Orin is: White. American Meaning: The name Orin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Orin is: White. Hebrew Meaning: The name Orin is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Orin is: tree. Gaelic Meaning: The name Orin is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Orin is: Pale. 
Orin is one of a variety of similarly-spelled names that have a soft and sensitive image. The Orrin spelling has been known nationally via Republican Senator Hatch. Orin is the name of a character in Eugene O' Neill 's drama Mourning Becomes Electra. Oren is a Hebrew name that means laurel while Oran is Irish and means pale little green one. 
The name Orrin is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Orrin is: Pale. American Meaning: The name Orrin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Orrin is: Pale. English Meaning: The name Orrin is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Orrin is: The name of an English river. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated
Orin /orin/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. The meaning of the name Orin is light; pale; pine tree; fair, pale. Orin is a variant transcription of Oran (Aramaic, Irish, Gaelic). Orin is also a derivative of Oren (Hebrew, Irish, Gaelic). Kreatif forms: Oaorin, Orinoa, Orinoi. Orin is a rare given name for men but a somewhat popular surname for both adults and children (#77222 out of 150436, Top 51%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Orin for boys. Orin reached its top position of #467 in the U.S. in the 1880s, but is not listed currently.