Rubella is an infection caused by a virus. Congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) is an important cause of severe birth defects. When a woman is infected with the rubella virus early in pregnancy, she has a 90% chance of passing the virus on to her fetus. This can cause the death of the fetus, or it may cause CRS. 
German measles (rubella) is caused by a highly contagious virus. A patient is contagious in the week before the rash outbreak until two weeks after the rash clears. The virus is spread when you inhale or touch secretions from an infected person. 
Rubella is a highly contagious viral disease characterized by slight fever, mild rash and swollen glands. Although most cases are mild, if rubella is contracted early in pregnancy, it can spread from the mother to her developing baby through the bloodstream and result in birth defects and/or fetal death. Rubella is a mild illness which may present few or no symptoms. Symptoms may include a rash, slight fever, joint aches, headache, discomfort, runny nose, sore throat and reddened eyes. The lymph nodes just behind the ears and at the back of the neck may swell, causing some soreness and/or pain.
Espanol: Español transmision transmisión. Del sarampion sarampión measles is a highly contagious virus that lives in the nose and throat mucus of. An infected person it can spread to others through. Coughing, and sneezing also measles virus can live for up to two hours in an airspace where the infected person. coughed or sneezed Measles is a highly contagious virus that lives in the nose and throat mucus of an infected person. It can spread to others through coughing and sneezing. Also, measles virus can live for up to two hours in an airspace where the infected person coughed or sneezed.
An Overview of Rubella Transmission. Rubella (also known as German measles or three-day measles) is a contagious illness spread by coughing and sneezing. A person with rubella can transmit the virus anytime from about seven days prior to the onset of the rash to seven days after the onset. Even if rubella symptoms never develop, a person can spread rubella if he or she becomes infected with rubella virus. Following rubella transmission, a person does not immediately become sick. Once the rubella virus enters the body, it travels to the nose and back of the throat, where it begins to multiply. It can also travel to other parts of the body through the bloodstream and lymph system.
Rubella, also known as German measles or three-day measles, is an infection caused by the rubella virus. This disease is often mild with half of people not realizing that they are sick. A rash may start around two weeks after exposure and last for three days. Rubella is usually spread through the air via coughs of people who are infected. People are infectious during the week before and after the appearance of the rash. Babies with CRS may spread the virus for more than a year.
Causes. The cause of rubella is a virus that's passed from person to person. It can spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes, or it can spread by direct contact with an infected person's respiratory secretions, such as mucus. It can also be transmitted from a pregnant woman to her unborn child via the bloodstream. A person with rubella is contagious from 10 days before the onset of the rash until about one or two weeks after the rash disappears. An infected person can spread the illness before the person realizes he or she has it.
Rubella is an acute, contagious viral infection. While the illness is generally mild in children, it has serious consequences in pregnant women causing fetal death or congenital defects known as congenital rubella syndrome (CRS). The rubella virus is transmitted by airborne droplets when infected people sneeze or cough. 
The virus is found in fluids from the mouth and nose of someone with rubella. The virus is spread when fluid containing the virus gets in your nose, mouth, or eyes. This can happen when a person with rubella coughs or sneezes near you, or by touching the fluid and then touching your eyes, nose, or mouth. The period between exposure to the virus and onset of illness is usually 16 to 18 days, but can range from 14 to 21 days. A person with rubella can spread the virus to others during the period from 7 days before until 7 days after the rash appears. Vaccination is the best way to prevent the spread of rubella.