Unlike the fixed annual income of a salary, wages are calculated on an hourly rate. The yearly gross wage is thus dependent on the number of hours you worked at your place of employment. For example, a person who is offered a wage of $10 an hour will receive a weekly gross pay of $400 based on a 40-hour week. The yearly gross amount is equal to the amount of the salary specified in the employment contract. For example, a person who has a yearly salary of $48,000 will receive a gross salary of $4,000 each month.
Gross fixed capital formation (GFCF) is a macroeconomic concept used in official national accounts such as the United Nations System of National Accounts (UNSNA), National Income and Product Accounts (NIPA) and the European System of Accounts (ESA). 
Fixed monthly allowances: These are monthly allowances that do not vary from month to month. Examples include fixed food and housing allowances. Fixed monthly salary does not include the following: 1  Variable allowances. 2  Overtime payment, bonus, commission or annual wage supplements. 3  In-kind payments. 4  Any form of reimbursements, including for expenses incurred by an employee in the course of his employment. 5  Productivity incentive payments.
Basic Definition. Gross salary is the term used to describe all of the money you’ve made while working at your job, figured before any deductions are taken for state and federal taxes, Social Security and health insurance. If you work more than one job, you’ll have a gross salary amount for each one
Salary. Employees who are paid a salary receive a fixed gross amount each pay period. The yearly gross amount is equal to the amount of the salary specified in the employment contract. For example, a person who has a yearly salary of $48,000 will receive a gross salary of $4,000 each month. The amount of the salary is not dependent on the number of hours you have contributed each month
Aggregate amount of wages received on a regular basis, usually weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly prior to any deductions such a federal and state taxes. An individual's gross salary is one factor that is used by creditors to determine if credit will be extended to the individual and his/her ability to repay the funds.
Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed. Salary is typically determined by comparing market pay rates for people performing similar work in similar industries in the same region. Salary is also determined by leveling the pay rates and salary ranges established by an individual employer.
Fixed monthly salary = basic monthly salary + fixed monthly allowances. Basic monthly salary: This is payment that does not vary from month to month, regardless of employee or company performance, and regardless of whether the employee takes medical or personal leave. Fixed monthly salary does not include the following: 1  Variable allowances. 2  Overtime payment, bonus, commission or annual wage supplements. 3  In-kind payments. 4  Any form of reimbursements, including for expenses incurred by an employee in the course of his employment. 5  Productivity incentive payments.
Show more usage examples... The gross salary of the employee was increasing every year which made the 10 year employee happy with his wages. 5 people found this helpful. John was happy with the gross salary he earned, but he was disappointed with the large amount of money that was deducted for taxes and insurance. 4 people found this helpful. An individual's gross salary is one factor that is used by creditors to determine if credit will be extended to the individual and his/her ability to repay the funds.
You may hear terms such as gross salary, net salary and deductions used, especially on payday, but might not be completely clear as to what all of them mean. Gross salary is the term used to describe all of the money you’ve made while working at your job, figured before any deductions are taken for state and federal taxes, Social Security and health insurance.