Definition: A language is called semi-decidable (or recognizable) if there exists an algorithm that accepts a given string if and only if the string belongs to that language. In case the string does not belong to the language, the algorithm either rejects it or runs forever. Proof: Surely, a decidable language is recognizable. Moreover, if a language is decidable, then so is its complement, and hence that complement is recognizable. Now suppose a language L and its complement are recognizable. Let A be a recognizer for L, and B for its complement.
Decidability. Definition: A language is called decidable if there exists a method-any method at all-to determine whether a given word belongs to that language or not. Working hypothesis I: Decidability is well defined above. Proof: Surely, a decidable language is recognizable. Moreover, if a language is decidable, then so is its complement, and hence that complement is recognizable. Now suppose a language L and its complement are recognizable. Let A be a recognizer for L, and B for its complement.
A language is Decidable iff there is a Turing Machine which will accept strings in the language and reject strings not in the language. Perhaps this link will be helpful: http://kilby.stanford.edu/~rvg/154/handouts/decidability.html. share | cite | improve this answer. Def: A Language is called Turing Decidable if some Turing Machine decides it. Keeping it simple-A language $L$ is Turing Decidable if some decider $M$, decides it. For more information you can refer to: An Introduction to the Theory of Computation by Michael Sipser.
Lecture 17: Proving Undecidability 3 What Decidable Means A language L is decidable if there exists a TM M such that for all strings w : –If w ∈ L, M enters q Accept .–If w ∉ L, M enters q Reject .To prove a language is decidable, we can show how to construct a TM that decides it. 
To show that a language is decidable, we need to create a Turing machine which will halt on any input string from the language's alphabet. Since $M$ is a dfa, we already have the Turing Machine and just need to show that the dfa halts on every input. How to prove a language is decidable. up vote 1 down vote favorite. I would like to see some proofs to show if particular string in machine M which dfa is decidable or not. I am trying to find some results on this but those are not appropriate. Any examples or proofs would be of great help.
A language is Recognizable iff there is a Turing Machine which will halt and accept only the strings in that language and for strings not in the language, the TM either rejects, or does not halt at all. Note: there is no requirement that the Turing Machine should halt for strings not in the language. Def: A Language is called Turing Decidable if some Turing Machine decides it. Keeping it simple-A language $L$ is Turing Decidable if some decider $M$, decides it. For more information you can refer to: An Introduction to the Theory of Computation by Michael Sipser.
The machine $M$ is called a decider. The languages for which we can design Turing Machines with the above property are called Turing Decidable languages. In the above example, we say that $M$ decides $L$. Here is the definition : Def: A Language is called Turing Decidable if some Turing Machine decides it. Keeping it simple-A language $L$ is Turing Decidable if some decider $M$, decides it. For more information you can refer to: An Introduction to the Theory of Computation by Michael Sipser.
Clearly, any decidable language is recognizable. We still have to see whether or not there are recognizable languages that are not decidable, and whether or not there are languages that are not recognizable. Proposition: The recognizable languages are closed under union and intersection. Proof: Surely, a decidable language is recognizable. Moreover, if a language is decidable, then so is its complement, and hence that complement is recognizable. Now suppose a language L and its complement are recognizable. Let A be a recognizer for L, and B for its complement.
Theorem 4.7 (4.6) is a decidable language Proof ideas: For a CFG and a string: First idea: Go through all derivationsgenerated by checking whether any is aderivation of. Since there are inﬁnitely many derivations this idea does not work.If does not generate  the algorithm doesn’t halt. Problem 3 decidability of CFL Problem: for an CFL and string doesbelong to ?, i.e. is there a CFG such that? Language: a CFL and string Theorem 4.9 Every context-free language is decid-able Decidable Problems Concerning Context-Free Languages – p.14/33.