TOMATOES Slow-Roasted Tomatoes 200F is the perfect temperature for slow-roasting tomatoes. WHOLE VEGETABLES How to Roast a Whole Pumpkin and How to Roast a Whole Butternut Squash show how to roast whole vegetables although without the crispy edges and usually for mashing or cooking with. ONE AT A TIME Mostly, we roast one vegetable at a time since it’s hard for more than one kind to finish cooking at the same time. Yes, with experience, it’s possible to combine vegetables, cooking a more-starchy vegetable a little longer than a less-starchy vegetable. OVEN TEMPERATURE for ROASTING We roast vegetables at high temperature, 375 degrees on the low end and 500 degrees on the high end but typically 400F or 425F. SAME SIZE While the oven preheats, prep the vegetables
You can roast just about anything, but vegetables especially benefit from the high, dry heat of the oven. Their flavor becomes concentrated and their natural sugars caramelize, transforming them into richly satisfying sides. For every 2 pounds of vegetables, toss with 1 tablespoon olive oil prior to roasting. 
Most of your summer produce will respond delectably to roasting, with luscious and healthful results. Slow or fast, roasting yields great flavor. You can roast vegetables in a slow oven, up to 325°F, or a fast oven, with a temperature as high as 500°F. The oven temperature will depend on the type of vegetable, as some work best with long, slow cooking and others with quick, hot methods. Slow roasting works especially well with carrots or other root vegetables. A little olive oil, rosemary, vinegar, salt, and garlic will imbue rapid-roasted tomatoes with added flavor. Oven roasting can be completed in as little as 10 minutes in a preheated oven and can be done ahead of time. Then the vegetables can be brought back to room temperature or reheated. As long as you have an oven, even a small toaster oven, you can roas
One of the easiest, most versatile side dishes is roasted vegetables. You’d be amazed at what 20-40 minutes in the good ol’ oven can do to your veggies. We’re talking crispy on the outside, soft on the inside, warm, comforting, and nourishing real foods. 1 The heat needs to be high. 2  I generally roast at 425 degrees F. 3  The high temperature ensures that the veggies will cook quickly; they’ll brown on the outside, but stay tender on the inside.
Choosing Your Vegetables. Best Veggies: Some vegetables especially benefit from roasting, such as onions, potatoes, carrots, beets, winter squash, carrots, and other hearty root vegetables, but most vegetables will work. Tender vegetables, such as asparagus and mushrooms, also transform in the heat of the oven. Less-Good Veggies: Green beans, broccoli, and other green-hue vegetables are not as well suited for roasting because they tend to turn olive green, and the green beans shrivel before becoming tender. How to Roast Vegetables. Roasting vegetables in a very hot oven gives them a caramelized exterior and flavor while keeping the inside moist and tender. This showy cooking method can easily feed a crowd or just a couple, and it lets you choose the vegetables.
1 Toss carrots, potatoes, shallots, oil, salt and pepper on a large rimmed baking sheet. 2  Roast the vegetables on the highest rack for 1 hour, stirring once. 3  Increase the oven temperature to 425°F. 4  Stir the vegetables again and transfer to the lowest rack. 1 Roast the vegetables on the highest rack for 1 hour, stirring once. 2  Increase the oven temperature to 425°F. 3  Stir the vegetables again and transfer to the lowest rack. 4  Roast until the vegetables are browned and crisp, about 20 minutes more
1 Toss with vegetables until they are coated. 2  Spread evenly on a large roasting pan. 3  Roast for 35 to 40 minutes in the preheated oven, stirring every 10 minutes, or until vegetables are cooked through and browned. 1 In a small bowl, stir together thyme, rosemary, olive oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. 2  Toss with vegetables until they are coated. 3  Spread evenly on a large roasting pan. 4
1 Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F or to the temperature specified in your recipe. 2  Hearty vegetables such as potatoes, turnips, parsnips, fennel, carrots, onions, and cauliflower need a little extra roasting time, so put them in a shallow roasting pan, a 15x10x1-inch baking pan, or a 13x9x2-inch baking pan first. 1 Roast the vegetables, uncovered, about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 2  Remove the pan from the oven and add quicker-cooking vegetables such as eggplant, sweet peppers, roma tomatoes, asparagus, precooked green beans (see tip above), zucchini, and summer squash. 3  Toss gently to combine.