VED Analysis is very useful to categorize items of spare parts and components. In fact, in the inventory control of spare parts and components it is advisable, for the organization to use a combination of ABC and VED Analysis. Such control system would be found to be more effective and meaningful. Vital, Essential and Desirable Analysis... It is the Analysis for monitoring and control of stores and spares inventory by classifying them into 3 categories viz., Vital, Essential and Desirable. The mechanics of VED analysis are similar to those of ABC Analysis.
The ABC analysis suggests that inventories of an organization are not of equal value. Thus, the inventory is grouped into three categories (A, B, and C) in order of their estimated importance. 'A' items are very important for an organization. Because of the high value of these 'A' items, frequent value analysis is required.
The ABC analysis provides a mechanism for identifying items that will have a significant impact on overall inventory cost, while also providing a mechanism for identifying different categories of stock that will require different management and controls. Thus, the inventory is grouped into three categories (A, B, and C) in order of their estimated importance. 'A' items are very important for an organization. Because of the high value of these 'A' items, frequent value analysis is required.
ABC Analysis is similar to the Pareto principle in that the 'A' items will typically account for a large proportion of the overall value but a small percentage of number of items. Example of ABC class are. ‘ 1 A’ items – 20% of the items accounts for 70% of the annual consumption value of the items. Thus, the inventory is grouped into three categories (A, B, and C) in order of their estimated importance. 'A' items are very important for an organization. Because of the high value of these 'A' items, frequent value analysis is required.
With MRO and spare parts inventory that is held for maintenance and operations support it is sometimes suggested that an ABC analysis be based on stock turn (see separate entry) but in this author’s opinion this is of little value because slow moving items (hence with a low stock turn) may be critical to the operation. Phillip Slater. An ABC analysis is an analytical approach to inventory management that divides the inventory items into categories and tries to identify the items that are most important. Typically A is more important than B and B is more important than C and so 
ABC analysis divides an inventory into three categories- A items with very tight control and accurate records, B items with less tightly controlled and good records, and C items with the simplest controls possible and minimal records. Thus, the inventory is grouped into three categories (A, B, and C) in order of their estimated importance. 'A' items are very important for an organization. Because of the high value of these 'A' items, frequent value analysis is required.
2 Answers. Answer added by: Hamza Lokhandwala Sales Manager 1 year ago. The ABC analysis is a business term used to define an inventory categorization technique often used in materials management. It is also known as Selective Inventory Control. Policies based on ABC analysis: 1  A ITEMS: very tight control and accurate records. 2  B ITEMS: less tightly controlled and good records.
Keywords: ABC analysis, data normalization, utility function. 1. Essence of ABC Analysis Maintaining of particular inventory level is one of the major goals in warehouse management [1.]. Spare parts warehouse management provides a problematic aspects for planning. Fig. 3. and 4. present percentage contribution of groups of parts in general stock in the warehouse and after elimination of safety stock according to the number of inventory items since it is impossible to exclude the impact of quantity in safety stock on change in the results of ABC analysis in Case II.
[...] ABC Analysis is a method that is often used to segment inventory. Where the organization has an inventory that is diverse in product type and cost – traditional cycle count processes are not appropriate as they do not account for values. 