Calculate how long you were actually pregnant. Just enter when your baby was born, and your last menstrual period before you were pregnant, and your pregnancy length is calculated, and also compared to estimated due date based on Naegle's Rule. 
Pregnancy induced hypertension. Your due date is calculated by adding 280 days (40 weeks) to the first day of your last menstrual period (assuming a 28 day cycle). How is my due date calculated? Your due date is calculated by adding 280 days (40 weeks) to the first day of your last menstrual period (assuming a 28 day cycle).
Due Date Calculator. This interactive Due Date Calculator will help you estimate the date your baby will arrive. Pregnancy usually lasts 280 days (40 weeks) from the first day of the woman's last menstrual period. This calculator is a general guide: every pregnancy is unique, and sometimes babies arrive sooner or later than expected. Always talk to your health care provider about your due date. Fertilization of the egg usually takes place 14 days before the woman's next period. If your menstrual cycle is shorter or longer than 28 days, select the number of days from the start of one cycle to the start of the next cycle.
More about your due date. It sounds a little silly, but you aren't really pregnant for about the first two weeks of your pregnancy. Pregnancy is calculated based on the average menstrual cycle (28 days), which begins with your period. About two weeks into this cycle, ovulation occurs... See the full answer. Dr. Ashley Roman: We typically schedule low-risk patients for their first visit at around eight or nine weeks.
Adding the 14 days to the 266 days gives 280 days, or 40 weeks. The due date is traditionally set at 40 weeks from the first day of the last menstrual period in a normal pregnancy (in a woman with 28 day cycles). At our clinic, we use an Excel spreadsheet to calculate the exact due date for our pregnant patients. IVF Due Date Calculator. As far as calculating a due date after IVF, the most accurate method is to add 266 days (or 38 weeks) to the day of the egg retrieval. The eggs are fertilized that day, which is the same as day 14 - the day of ovulation and fertilization in a normal 28 day menstrual cycle.
Simply add 280 days (or 40 weeks) to the first day of your last period. If you know when conception happened then just add 266 days (or 38 weeks). However, things can get complicated if your cycle length is not 28 days or if your luteal phase length is not 14 days. Our calculator estimates your due date based on LMP, your average cycle length and your luteal phase length. The expected date of delivery (EDD) and estimated conception date computed by this calculator are for informational purposes only and by no means shall be used as the exact dates for these events.
Our free Ovulation Calendar helps you predict your most fertile time of the month (ovulation) so that you can achieve pregnancy. Enter your menstrual cycle information (the start date of your last menstrual period, your menstrual period length and your luteal phase length). Then simply click on View Calendar to view your personal ovulation calendar. If you don't know the length of your menstrual cycle or your luteal phase, you can leave these at their default values (menstrual cycle: 28 days, luteal phase: 14 days). It is recommended though, that you record these, as they will help you to more accurately predict your likely ovulatory date.