The Caveman Power Diet. The Caveman Power Diet increases energy, the ability to burn fat, and gets you in touch with your natural instincts. It's not just a way to lose weight, it's a healthy approach to making your body indestructable. Doing the the Caveman Power Diet is a very natural state for your body to be in, and you will feel the results immediately. Embrace it for what it is; animal motivation. It is a very open do-it-yourself diet, that encourages you to feel content in a way that suits you personally
Part of the Software applications glossary: CAVEman is an interactive, object-oriented model of a human body consisting of over 3,000 anatomically correct, catalogued and computerized body parts. The first such model ever developed, CAVEman is known as a 4-D human atlas. 4-D includes the three spatial dimensions plus time, which allows researchers to simulate the progression of a disease or the effects of a treatment over a period of time. 
Full Definition of CAVEMAN. 1. : a cave dweller especially of the Stone Age. 2. : a man who acts in a rough or crude manner. See caveman defined for English-language learners. See caveman defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Caveman Diet, 7.6 out of 10 based on 221 ratings. Get the #1 caveman diet app in iTunes. Download Paleo.io now! The caveman diet is another term for the paleo diet. The paleo diet is commonly referred to as the caveman diet due to the fact that, while on the paleo diet, you eat the same foods as caveman did. The paleo diet is also so simple that “a caveman could do it.”. Regardless of the origin of the name, the caveman diet has many of the same principles as
The Paleo diet or Paleolithic diet (sometimes referred to as the Caveman Diet) is based on the idea that our bodies are better adapted to what our human ancestors ate during the Paleolithic era. 
Wild food is an important feature of the diet. The paleolithic diet is a diet based on the foods ancient ancestors might likely have eaten, such as meat, nuts, and berries, and excludes food to which they had not yet become familiar, like dairy. The terms caveman diet and stone-age diet are also used, as is Paleo Diet, trademarked by Loren Cordain. In 2012 the paleolithic diet was described as being one of the latest trends in diets, based on the popularity of diet books about it; in 2013 the diet was Google 's most searched-for weight-loss method.
A caveman is a stock character based upon widespread anachronistic concepts of the way in which neanderthals, early modern humans, or archaic hominids may have looked and behaved. Stereotypical cavemen have traditionally been depicted wearing smock-like garments made of animal skin and held up by a shoulder strap on one side, and carrying large clubs approximately conical in shape. They often have grunt-like names such as Ugg and Zog.
Eat like a caveman and shed pounds. That's the theory behind the Paleo Diet. Loren Cordain, PhD, who literally wrote the book on The Paleo Diet, claims that by eating like our prehistoric ancestors, we’ll be leaner and less likely to get diabetes, heart disease, cancer, and other health problems. 
Cavemen are portrayed as wearing shaggy animal hides, and capable of cave painting like behaviourally modern humans of the ice-age. Stereotypical cavemen have traditionally been depicted wearing smock-like garments made of animal skin and held up by a shoulder strap on one side, and carrying large clubs approximately conical in shape. They often have grunt-like names such as Ugg and Zog.