Soil is considered to be the skin of the earth and interfaces with its lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere. Soil consists of a solid phase (minerals and organic matter) as well as a porous phase that holds gases and water. Accordingly, soils are often treated as a three-state system. Soil bulk density is equal to the dry mass of the soil divided by the volume of the soil; i.e., it includes air space and organic materials of the soil volume. The soil bulk density of cultivated loam is about 1.1 to 1.4 g/cm 3 (for comparison water is 1.0 g/cm 3). Soil bulk density is highly variable for a given soil.
Soil fertility is greatly influenced by the factors of soil formation. As soils form, nutrients are being continually removed from and added to the soil with time. The conditions that are present during soil formation ultimately determine how much and what kind of nutrients the soil can naturally supply and hold. Parent material is the starting point for most soil development. The parent material may be mineral rock and/or organic matter. When parent rock material is exposed to the atmosphere or when organic matter and/or minerals are deposited on the earth’s surface, soil formation begins.
Humus formation is a process dependent on the amount of plant material added each year and the type of base soil. Both are affected by climate and the type of organisms present. Soils with humus can vary in nitrogen content but typically have 3 to 6 percent nitrogen. Soil bulk density is equal to the dry mass of the soil divided by the volume of the soil; i.e., it includes air space and organic materials of the soil volume. The soil bulk density of cultivated loam is about 1.1 to 1.4 g/cm 3 (for comparison water is 1.0 g/cm 3). Soil bulk density is highly variable for a given soil.
The Parent Material may be directly below the soil, or great distances away if wind, water or glaciers have transported the soil. In addition to the soil parent material, soil formation is also dependent upon other prevailing processes affecting soil formation. The soil formation process is termed 'pedogenesis'. Climatic conditions are important factors affecting both the form and rate of physical and chemical weathering of the parent material. 
Soil Forming Processes. There are five key processes by which soil is formed, they are: Leaching-leaching is the removal of soluable components of the soil column. Illuviation-here soil particles held in suspension, such as clay, are accumulated (eg. deposited). Podsolisation-podsolisation occurs when strongly acid soil solutions cause the breakdown of clay minerals. As a result silica, aluminium and iron form complexes with organic substances in the soil.
Weathering describes the means by which soil, rocks and minerals are changed by physical and chemical processes into other soil components. Weathering is an integral part of soil development. Depending on the soil-forming factors in an area, weathering may proceed rapidly over a decade or slowly over millions of years. Soil Weathering and Soil Formation. Soil formation and development is a dynamic rather than static process. Soils were present when prehistoric animals roamed the Earth and, like those animals, some are no longer present or are preserved only as fossilized soils buried deep beneath our present soil.
Over time, soils exhibit features that reflect the other forming factors. Soil formation processes are continuous. Recently deposited material, such as the deposition from a flood, exhibits no features from soil development activities. The previous soil surface and underlying horizons become buried. Soil Formation and Classification. The National Cooperative Soil Survey identifies and maps over 20,000 different kinds of soil in the United States. Most soils are given a name, which generally comes from the locale where the soil was first mapped. Named soils are referred to as soil series.
Time is the last of the five soil forming factors to consider. However, this does not mean that it is not important. Washington landscapes, and the soils developing on them, are products of dynamic on-going soil-forming processes. If a soil is wet, soil characteristics illustrate that fact. Soils that have a water table that moves upward and downward during different times of the year contain mottles (rusty spots) or what soil scientists call “redoximorphic features” that are similar to spots that form on a shovel that is left out in the rain.
Parent Material This is the material from which the soil has developed and can vary from solid rock to deposits like alluvium and boulder clay. It has been defined as ‘the initial state of the soil system’. Jenny H (1941) Factors of soil formation. McGraw-Hill Book Co Inc pp281. 
Soil Formation Soils may be formed in place from rock or formed in weathered rock and minerals that have been transported from where the original rock occurred. Rocks Consist of mixtures of minerals. Igneous Metamorphic Sedimentary Igneous rocks are formed from molten magma and contain primary minerals. 