Report Abuse. Yoki is a brand name and they have over 80 different seasonings and items, so it would be hard to know what it was she was using http://www.yoki.com.br/eng/grupoyoki.htm... HG Wells · 8 years ago.
Yoki is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Yo-ki. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Yoki Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Yoki has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Yoki to other names. Yoki falls into the weather name category.
Native American Meaning: The name Yoki is a Native American baby name. In Native American the meaning of the name Yoki is: Rain.
Yoki. 797 pages on this wiki. Yoki is a giant oni demon with a green body, neck length pink hair, and big bulging eyes, along with a hard shell on his back and short, purple horns on his head. His left horn holds a pledge ring, with which he shares with Yomi. Yoki eats both Madarao and Hakubi (though he notes they vanish while in his mouth). Yoshimori is stored inside of Yoki's shell. Though Yoki covers the pit with a boulder equipped with Kekkai-neutralizing charms, Tokine digs her way out.
Percentages of Yoki release. Yōki (妖気, Demon Energy) is the energy of a Yoma. When a Claymore is created, then assimilates the yoki of the particular Yoma used to create them, which is a variable in determining on the level of strength they use. Claymores use certain amounts of yoki to increase their strength, speed, or rate of regeneration, and many use their yoki to be able to create special, unique, and/or advanced moves such as Irene 's Quicksword.
o_6ps4jeh3ai. Yoki has six major brands across 21 categories – everything from popcorn to tea, snack food to side dishes. Originally a family-owned business, the brands of Yoki Alimentos S.A., are everywhere in Brazil. Founded in 1960, Yoki nourishes Brazilians with its everyday foods that include snacks, side dishes, seasoning, nuts, flours and soy beverages. The major brands of Yoki Alimentos are: 1  Yoki. 2  Kitano seasonings. 
Yoki may refer to: 1  A Brazilian packaged foods company. 2  Yoki Koto Kiku, a Japanese shōnen manga series by Koge-Donbo. 3  Yokiko Yoki Nekogami, the eldest of the triplets around whom the manga revolves. 4  Joyous Life (Yōki yusan or Yōki gurashi), in Tenrikyo. 5  Yoki, a Fullmetal Alchemist character. 
I was watching nigella lawson the other night and she had a boss recipe for pork chops. She used yoki though and I havent got an igloo what it is. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think that this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think that this question violates the Terms of Service. Yoki is a brand name and they have over 80 different seasonings and items, so it would be hard to know what it was she was using http://www.yoki.com.br/eng/grupoyoki.htm... HG Wells · 8 years ago.