Back when fireplaces and hearths were always masonry construction, everything was in either 4 or 8 nominal increments. If you like to actually sit on the fireplace hearth, the height would typically be 16-24. My best advice is appropriate visual scale to the finished room. There are no hard and fast rules for fireplace height. Having done years of custom homes, I've seen everything from on the floor to 36 up the wall in an extra large dining room with a 12' ceiling; the height was perfect so that all the guests could enjoy the fireplace while dining.
Definition. A hearth is a fireplace's brick or stone floor. Some fireplaces are designed so that the hearth extends out into the room. A sitting-height hearth is simply a hearth that extends out into your room and is built up, or raised off the floor, to a height that is comfortable for people to sit on. Tim Carter of Ask the Builder recommends a sitting-height hearth not be more than about 17 inches high. If your fireplace has a sitting-height hearth, it's the ideal spot to soak up the fireplace's warmth or roast marshmallows. A sitting-height hearth also offers extra seating in your room and is a good setting for family photos.
The International Residential Code requires that a wood burning fireplace have a minimum horizontal hearth extension of 16 inches for a firebox opening of less than 6 s.f. and 20 inches for an opening greater than 6 s.f. 
The overall height of the fireplace to the top of the stone is 9 ft 6 in. The fireplace is 7 ft wide and the raised hearth is 16 in tall. 
2.) Height of the Hearth. The height of the hearth can make a big difference in comfort. I prefer to design fireplace hearths to be high enough off the floor, while still providing a comfortable depth for seating. 
A modern take on my type of home/fireplace would have the hearth flush with the floor, or perhaps a floating slab hearth. Also, 8 is way too short to serve as additional seating, so I would think 12 would be, as well. 15 seems a reasonable sitting height. The fireplace guys came today to install the firebox and place it on a box 10 inches high as per our morning instructions regarding the future hearth height.
I am building a mantel for my fireplace. The fireplace is elevated about 8 to 10 off the floor on a brick hearth. The width, including off set and pilaster width will be about 78,and the fire box is about 38 high. What would be an appropiate height for the mantel. I am 6' tall and my wife is 5' 6 tall. 
Hearth Thickness. Concrete and masonry hearth pads take the brunt of the heat your insert puts out. Therefore, they must protect the subfloor and framing beneath them from heat damage. The finished height, or thickness, of the hearth sitting beneath the wood-burning insert must be a minimum of 4 inches. The hearth extension, however, only needs to be a minimum of 2 inches in thickness. This may include any stone you plan to install beneath the insert or over the hearth extension
A hearth is a brick-or stone-lined fireplace or stove that is often used for cooking. A hearth can also be defined as the stone or brick floor of a fireplace. A hearth is a brick-or stone-lined fireplace or stove that is often used for cooking. A hearth can also be defined as the brick or stone floor of a fireplace. It sometimes extends onto the floor of a room.