Coral Reef Biome Description. Some people assume that the coral reef is part of the ocean biome. Even though they are found in the ocean, they are separate entities. A coral reef biome is found in a shallow area of clear water within the ocean. The temperature in this biome is usually from 70 degrees to 85 degrees. Coral reef biomes are very common. You will find them mainly in the tropical areas. Warm water temperatures are required for a coral reef biome to exist. That is why they are in the water that is shallow. In the deeper locations of water, the sun isn’t able to shine due to the depths of it. With the shallow water though the sun can get to the bottom of it and warm the area up.
Still, corals are not the only dominant species found in the coral reef biome. One group of red algae (Phy. Rhodophyta) called the crustose coralline algae or CCA (Subclass Corallinophycidae) are ubiquitous on coral reefs, and play an important structural role in the formation of coral reefs. Structure of the Coral Reef Biome: Reef Zonation. One of the defining features of the coral reef biome is its characteristic large-scale structure, which consists of a series of distinct  zones  of differing species composition and topographic structure.
LOCATION: Coral reefs are generally found in clear, tropical oceans. Coral reefs form in waters from the surface to about 150 feet (45 meters) deep because they need sunlight to survive. The three types of reefs include fringing reefs, barrier reefs, and atolls. Reefs need calcium from the water to grow, which is more often available in shallow warm waters. PLANTS: The sun is the source of energy for the coral reef ecosystem. Plant plankton, called phytoplankton, algae and other plants convert light energy into chemical energy through photosynthesis.
The coral reef biome is located within the ocean but is separate from the ocean biome. It is located in a shallow, clear portion of the ocean in mostly tropical areas. These areas include the coasts of East Africa, South India, Australia, Florida, the Caribbean, and Brazil. Interesting Coral Reef Biome Facts: The diversity of the species living within different coral reefs depends on the reefs' latitude and the direction of the water. Coral reef biomes must exist in shallow water because they must remain between 70 to 85° F. Shallow water is easier to keep warm by the Sun than deeper water.
The Great Barrier Reef is the largest coral reef biome and is located in Australia. It can actually be seen from outer space. The diversity of the species living within different coral reefs depends on the reefs' latitude and the direction of the water. Coral reef biomes must exist in shallow water because they must remain between 70 to 85° F. Shallow water is easier to keep warm by the Sun than deeper water.
Other animals that live on the coral reef include sea urchins, sponges, sea stars, worms, fish, sharks, rays, lobster, shrimp, octopus, snails and many more. Many of these animals work together as a team like the coral polyps and zooxanthellae. This teamwork is called symbiosis. Reefs need calcium from the water to grow, which is more often available in shallow warm waters. PLANTS: The sun is the source of energy for the coral reef ecosystem. Plant plankton, called phytoplankton, algae and other plants convert light energy into chemical energy through photosynthesis.
The three types of coral reefs are fringing reefs, barrier reefs, and coral atolls. Although many types of animals live within the coral beef biome, it has much more diversity in its plant life. Coral reef biomes are naturally colorful because of the algae. The diversity of the species living within different coral reefs depends on the reefs' latitude and the direction of the water. Coral reef biomes must exist in shallow water because they must remain between 70 to 85° F. Shallow water is easier to keep warm by the Sun than deeper water.
Examples of the coral reef biome are mainly found in shallow tropical portions of the Western Pacific, Indian, and Atlantic Oceans. Structure of the Coral Reef Biome: Reef Zonation. One of the defining features of the coral reef biome is its characteristic large-scale structure, which consists of a series of distinct  zones  of differing species composition and topographic structure.
The coral reef biome is one of the most important and distinctive types of biological communities found on Planet Earth. In terms of biodiversity, coral reefs are the richest of all marine biomes. Although accounting for only a tiny fraction of the total surface area of the sea, the coral reef biome is nonetheless home to nearly 25% of all known marine species. Structure of the Coral Reef Biome: Reef Zonation. One of the defining features of the coral reef biome is its characteristic large-scale structure, which consists of a series of distinct  zones  of differing species composition and topographic structure.