Vertebrae. Bones in the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar regions of the body that make up the vertebral column. Vertebrae have a central foramen (hole), and their superposition makes up the vertebral canal that encloses the spinal cord. Etymology: L, joint. any one of the 33 bones (26 in the adult) of the spinal column, comprising the 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral (1 in adult), and 4 coccygeal vertebrae (1 in adult).
Medical Definition of VERTEBRA. : any of the bony or cartilaginous segments that make up the spinal column and that have a short more or less cylindrical body whose ends articulate by pads of elastic or cartilaginous tissue with those of adjacent vertebrae and a bony arch that encloses the spinal cord. Word Root of VERTEBRA. The Latin word vertere, meaning “ to turn ” or “ to change, ” and its form versus give us the roots vert and vers. Words from the Latin vertere have something to do with turning or changing.
a condition of spondylitis in which the body of the vertebra is reduced to a sclerotic disk. transitional vertebra. see transitional vertebra. true vertebra. those segments of the vertebral column that normally remain unfused throughout life: the cervical, thoracic, lumbar and coccygeal vertebrae. cervical vertebrae the upper seven vertebrae, constituting the skeleton of the neck. coccygeal vertebrae the lowest segments of the vertebral column, comprising three to five rudimentary vertebrae that form the coccyx. cranial vertebra the segments of the skull and facial bones, regarded by some as modified
In the vertebrate spinal column, each vertebra is an irregular bone with a complex structure composed of bone and some hyaline cartilage, the proportions of which vary according to the segment of the backbone and the species of vertebrate animal. 
L1 Vertebra — definition and function. Sections. The L1 vertebra is located in the lumbar spine, which is in the lower back portion of the spinal column. Most people have five vertebrae in the lumbar spine, which connects the middle of the back to the pelvis or sacrum.
any of the separate segments comprising the spine (vertebral column). The vertebrae support the body and provide the protective bony corridor (the spinal or vertebral canal) through which the spinal cord passes. The 33 bones that make up the spine differ considerably in size and structure according to location. cervical vertebrae the upper seven vertebrae, constituting the skeleton of the neck. coccygeal vertebrae the lowest segments of the vertebral column, comprising three to five rudimentary vertebrae that form the coccyx. cranial vertebra the segments of the skull and facial bones, regarded by some as modified vertebrae.
Any of the 33 bony segments of the spinal column: 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral, and 4 coccygeal vertebrae. In adults, the five sacral vertebrae fuse to form a single bone, the sacrum, and the four rudimentary coccygeal vertebrae fuse to form the coccyx. Etymology: L, joint. any one of the 33 bones (26 in the adult) of the spinal column, comprising the 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral (1 in adult), and 4 coccygeal vertebrae (1 in adult).
Cervical Vertebrae Definition. The cervical vertebrae are the seven cylindrical bones, or vertebral bodies (C1-C7), that provide support and structure for the cervical spine. Cervical Spine Anatomy Video. The vertebral body is the large portion of the bone that lies anterior (in front of) the spinal cord. The vertebrae get smaller as they near the base of the skull and only the top two segments allow for rotation in the neck.
Spine Anatomy Video. Vertebrae are the 33 individual, interlocking bones that form the spinal column. Each vertebra has three main functional components: the vertebral body for load-bearing, the vertebral arch to protect the spinal cord, and transverse processes for ligament attachment. 