Lately, I’ve been hearing a lot about the benefits of raw honey: it’s great for your immune system, it can help with allergies, it’s chock full of vitamins. But I wasn’t sure exactly what raw honey was, or what the difference was between raw honey and the honey you buy at the grocery store.
Raw honey is used by many as a treatment for allergies and for its antibacterial properties; however, many experts warn against ingesting raw, unpasteurized honey because it could pose certain health dangers for the consumer.
With so many forms of raw honey out there, it really is up to the individual how and what to acquire (based on consumption preferences) . Just don’t buy the mass-market honey (from huge companies, they most likely flash-heat and micro-filter during bottling) or labels that say “Grade A” (there’s no such thing).
It's the beneficial enzymes found in raw honey that make it so digestible to humans. Raw honey is filtered, but very minimally and in a manor not to destroy the health promoting enzymes and other nutrients. You'll also notice raw honey is solid at room temperature (like honey should be) and it also looks almost milky. It is not a golden and perfectly clear liquid.
Raw honey is honey that has not been filtered or heated in any way. Unfortunately, most of the honey available today has been heavily processed. By this I mean it has had the wonderful compounds such as bee pollen, beeswax and propolis filtered out of it. Most will have been pasteurized or heated as well.
Raw Honey vs. Organic Honey. Some people think raw honey is the same as organic honey, but it’s not. “Organic honey” is when the flowers that the bees get the nectar from has not been sprayed with chemicals.
Raw honey is honey that has not been heated, pasteurized or processed in any way. The differences between raw and pasteurized honey are substantial. Raw honey is an alkaline-forming food that contains natural vitamins, enzymes, powerful antioxidants and other important natural nutrients.
Raw honey is honey (nectar from flowers) that is pure, unheated, unpasteurized and unprocessed. This is perhaps one of the most important characteristics and health benefits of the final product, as it preserves all the natural vitamins, enzymes, phytonutrients and other nutritional elements.