Mineral oil is a colorless and odorless oil that’s made from petroleum—as a by-product of the distillation of petroleum to produce gasoline. It’s long been used as a common ingredient in lotions, creams, ointments, and cosmetics. It’s lightweight and inexpensive, and helps reduce water loss from the skin. 
How does mineral oil for constipation works. Mineral oil works in the following way: 1  It acts as a thin layer of insulation that coats your intestinal mucosa. 2  That layer prevents fluids from being reabsorbed from the stools into your body. 3  The stools thus remain moister. 4  It acts as a lubricant.
4 Reviews. The mineral oil that's used as medicine is a very refined, clear liquid distilled from petroleum. It's available over-the-counter (OTC) to treat a variety of ailments, including constipation, minor skin irritations, scalp conditions, ear-wax buildup, and others. Mineral Oil for Skin and Hair. Mineral oil is also used to treat certain scalp conditions, including dandruff, cradle cap, or scalp psoriasis. The oil may also be used to treat dry skin, diaper rash, or skin burns caused by radiation.
Mineral oil is used to treat constipation. It is known as a lubricant laxative. It works by keeping water in the stool and intestines. This helps to soften the stool and also makes it easier for stool to pass through the intestines. 
Mineral oil has been found in cosmetic and personal care products for 100 years or more, because it is an excellent lubricant that is lightweight and non-greasy. However, in recent years it has really fallen out of favor with consumers for a variety of reasons, among them being concerns about safety. Mineral Oil for Hair. Mineral oil is a good lubricant, and thus performs well as a detangler. It deposits onto the surface of hair strands and forms films that are sufficiently thick to mask irregularities in the cuticle structure, which gives it fantastic smoothing and emollient properties.
Though its association with petroleum has caused people to say mineral oil is bad for or ages skin, the truth is that petroleum itself is a natural ingredient that comes from the earth, and that once it becomes cosmetics-or pharmaceutical-grade mineral oil, it bears no resemblance to petroleum itself. Some people argue against the use of mineral oil, citing concerns that process it takes to extract it is damaging to the environment, and that it is a non-renewable resource. First, mineral oil is not a resource. It’s a byproduct of the petroleum industry. No one is drilling for oil to use for moisturizers. Mineral oil is extracted and purified from the petroleum refining process that occurs within other industries
Mineral Oil for Constipation. Mineral oil is commonly used as a laxative. For this purpose, the oil can be taken by mouth or applied in the rectum in an enema, although there are different products for each. Mineral oil works as a laxative in two ways: It helps your stool retain water, and it acts as a lubricant. Mineral Oil for Skin and Hair. Mineral oil is also used to treat certain scalp conditions, including dandruff, cradle cap, or scalp psoriasis. The oil may also be used to treat dry skin, diaper rash, or skin burns caused by radiation.
As this article will explain, mineral oil for constipation does not constitute a clear-cut case of a constipation remedy that is both natural and safe to use in the long run. First, we will explain what mineral oil is exactly – a derivative of petroleum. Not exactly what you can call a safe product to ingest. Mineral oil works in the following way: 1  It acts as a thin layer of insulation that coats your intestinal mucosa. 2  That layer prevents fluids from being reabsorbed from the stools into your body. 3  The stools thus remain moister. 4  It acts as a lubricant.
Baby oil is a perfumed mineral oil. Most often, mineral oil is a liquid by-product of refining crude oil to make gasoline and other petroleum products. This type of mineral oil is a transparent, colorless oil composed mainly of alkanes and cycloalkanes, related to petroleum jelly. It has a density of around 0.8 g/cm 3.