1. The act or process of overturning: the court's overturn of a ruling. 2. The state of having been overturned. 3. The periodic mixing or circulation of water in a lake or sea as a result of changing temperature of its layers. 3. to turn over; capsize. 4. the act of overturning. 5. the state of being overturned. 6. the thorough circulation of water and nutrients brought about in a lake by the action of wind in the spring and fall.
Definition of OVERTURN. 1. : the act of overturning: the state of being overturned. 2. : the sinking of surface water and rise of bottom water in a lake or sea that results from changes in temperature that commonly occur in spring and fall. 
This isn't to say that an appeals court will never look at a case with fresh eyes. When they do, it is called de novo review, which means that they look at everything with no eyes and don't pay attention to what the court below did. Usually, only decisions made by judges in certain courts go through a de novo appeal, like decisions in small claims court. by FreeAdvice staff. An appeal means that one of the parties is requesting that the decision in your case be looked at again by a higher court. In other words, they are arguing that something went wrong with the first decision and that it should be changed. In most cases, the appeals process is somewhat limited
Use overturn in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. To overturn is to flip something over, to conquer or to reverse. 1  An example of overturn is to turn a canoe upside down. To turn over or capsize: The car went off the road and overturned. noun. 1  The act or process of overturning: the court's overturn of a ruling. 2  The state of having been overturned. 3  The periodic mixing or circulation of water in a lake or sea as a result of changing temperature of its layers.
(ō′vər-turn′). tûrn. 1 the act or process of: overturning the'court s overturn of a. ruling. 2 the state of having been. overturned. 3 the periodic mixing or circulation of water in a lake or sea as a result of changing temperature of its. layers 3. to turn over; capsize. 4. the act of overturning. 5. the state of being overturned. 6. the thorough circulation of water and nutrients brought about in a lake by the action of wind in the spring and fall.
If a precedent is overturned by a new case, that basically means that the new case was decided contrary to that past case, and is now the current guide for all future similar cases. It basically amounts to the Court changing its mind, and reversing its previous stance on similar issues. It could be, but not necessarily. The two terms do not necessarily mean the same thing. To remand, in general, means 'to send back.' An appeals court may remand a case to th … e trial court for further action if it reverses the judgment of the lower court. It is a finding by an appellate court, which sends a case back to the trial court for further proceeding
When a previous court case is overturned, it means that the case  has been reviewed by a higher court, and the ruling has been  changed. For instance, if someone is found gu … ilty in a district  court, they may be found not-guilty in a federal court. Answered. It could be, but not necessarily. The two terms do not necessarily mean the same thing. To remand, in general, means 'to send back.' An appeals court may remand a case to th … e trial court for further action if it reverses the judgment of the lower court. It is a finding by an appellate court, which sends a case back to the trial court for further proceedings