Given that about 80 percent of Americans drink coffee (55 percent daily, 25 percent occasionally), and the average intake is about 200 mg caffeine/day (3 mg/kg), most athletes are familiar with caffeine's benefits of heightened alertness and performance. In research studies, the amount of caffeine that enhances performance ranges from 1.5 to 4 mg/lb body weight (3 to 9 mg/kg) taken one hour before exercise. For a 150 lb person, this comes to about 225 to 600 mg. More doesn't seem to be better.
Amount and Sources. Most adults can consume 200 mg to 300 mg of caffeine per day, which translates to two to four cups of coffee, without any health concerns or negative side effects. Once you start drinking four or more cups of coffee, or otherwise consuming 500 mg to 600 mg of caffeine daily, you are more likely to experience the ill effects of caffeine. Coffee is one of the most abundant sources of caffeine, although other consumable items contain the drug.
In fact, higher doses are more likely to cause unwanted side effects. The more recently recommended caffeine dose for performance improvement is 1 to 3 mg caffeine per kg body weight (0.45-1.4 g per lb). For a 68 kg (150 pound) athlete, that equates to a range of about 70 to 210 mg of caffeine. Do this at least one week before the competition to be completely free of withdrawal effects. Once you are off caffeine, resume a moderate intake of 1 to 3 mg caffeine per kg body weight (0.45-1.4 mg per pound) on the day of your competition. This will result in the desired stimulant effects again, just like in a nonuser. Timing of Caffeine Intak
That's roughly the amount of caffeine in four cups of brewed coffee, 10 cans of cola or two energy shot drinks. Although caffeine use may be safe for adults, it's not a good idea for children. And adolescents should limit themselves to no more than 100 mg of caffeine a day. Even among adults, heavy caffeine use can cause unpleasant side effects. And caffeine may not be a good choice for people who are highly sensitive to its effects or who take certain medications
The average caffeine consumption in the USA is approximately 2 cups of coffee per day (200 mg); 10% of the population ingests more than 1000 mg per day. Caffeine is a socially acceptable, legal drug consumed by all groups in society. By the end of the decade, it was suggested that caffeine did not. alter metabolism during endurance exercise and may not be ergogenic. Recent work reported that ingestion of 3-9 mg of caffeine per kilogram (kg) of body weight. one hour prior to exercise increased endurance running and cycling performance in the.
Other symptoms include drowsiness, lethargy, irritability and even nausea and vomiting. Excessive caffeine intake (in the average person, more than four or five cups of strong tea or coffee per day) causes tremors, a fast heart rate, increased urination, nervousness, anxiety, stomach upsets and insomnia. It's hard to pinpoint exactly how much is a problem, as its effects on the body vary greatly between individuals. The ballpark guideline is to consume less than 600 mg per day  around four cups of strong drip-percolated coffee, or five or six cups of tea.
The maximum limit is any amount that changes caffeine's pleasant side effects into unpleasant ones. Most adults can consume 200 mg to 300 mg of caffeine per day, which translates to two to four cups of coffee, without any health concerns or negative side effects. Once you start drinking four or more cups of coffee, or otherwise consuming 500 mg to 600 mg of caffeine daily, you are more likely to experience the ill effects of caffeine. Coffee is one of the most abundant sources of caffeine, although other consumable items contain the drug.
To best minimize your risk, consume less than 100 milligrams of caffeine per day, or no more than 1 to 2 cups of coffee. Caffeine may also have adverse impacts in children, such as disturbing their sleep, and intake should be limited to 2.5 milligrams of caffeine per kilogram of their body weight per day. The Journal of Food Science notes that the dose at which caffeine becomes toxic to your body is difficult to establish, but may be near 10 grams per day, or roughly 100
A moderate caffeine intake is considered to be 250 mg/day. In research studies, the amount of caffeine that enhances performance ranges from 1.5 to 4 mg/lb body weight (3 to 9 mg/kg) taken one hour before exercise. For a 150 lb person, this comes to about 225 to 600 mg. More doesn't seem to be better.