A 70’s Fender Strat. This twisted and warped maple neck has a thick factory finish sprayed over the frets and fretboard. At some point, the neck was over-sprayed with tinted lacquer which has further reduced the useable height of the already worn frets. Refretting this neck will give me the chance to address all of these issues. 9. Brushing on the Finish. Two coats of polyurethane will make the neck look sharp and protect the maple fretboard for many more years of playing. After curing for 2 weeks, I’ll lightly sand and buff the finish.
Average cost for a maple fretboard refret is $225-250, the finish makes it more difficult that a rosewood Strat neck (which usually runs around $175-200). 
Refretting a maple neck Fender is something many repair shops shy away from, for good reason. It’s not something you should get into unless you’re equipped for the possibility of refinishing the neck. (Applying finish around the frets is tricky, so when this is required I price accordingly.). When this neck was made, the frets were driven into the fret slot from the side of the fingerboard rather than pressed down in. If I were to try to remove these frets by pulling them up, not only would the maple fretboard chip excessively, but I’d damage the finish bond repair.
I have here a 57 RI Fender Strat which needs a refret. Maple necks are hard to handle and some lacquer chipping usually occurs no matter how careful one is. Certainly, the best way is to relacquer the neck, but sometimes cost is a consideration and here, I'll have to work with the original lacquer. Here goes: 
On average, a maple fretboard is $250 for a refret, a rosewood (unbound) is $175. A bound rosewood board is around $275-300. Any way you slice it, having to refinish a fretboard at any point in the refretting process will add a lot of work and thus cost more than a wood like rosewood where you can just pull them, sand it down, and put new ones in.
To dress the frets I bolt the neck to a maple plank, which serves as a stand-in for the actual guitar body (below). Then I adjust the truss rod until the neck is as true as possible, and blue the tops of the frets with a magic marker in preparation for leveling. When this neck was made, the frets were driven into the fret slot from the side of the fingerboard rather than pressed down in. If I were to try to remove these frets by pulling them up, not only would the maple fretboard chip excessively, but I’d damage the finish bond repair.
1. A Fender Strat. This one has a maple neck with a satin urethane finish. It’s time for some new frets. This neck is fairly straight so I’ll refret over the existing finish. 2. Removing the Nut. I cut through the finish around the nut with a razor blade then use a punch to knock it out of the neck sideways. If it’s a vintage maple neck with a lacquer finish, it’s best to use wood glue as you press the frets in. 9. Removing Excess Glue. A small square of paper towel dampened with acetone removes the excess glue.
This way, I can work on the neck with no chance of damaging the body. I can see that the finish on this neck is thinner than on necks made in the 1970s and later. When this neck was made, the frets were driven into the fret slot from the side of the fingerboard rather than pressed down in. If I were to try to remove these frets by pulling them up, not only would the maple fretboard chip excessively, but I’d damage the finish bond repair.
Also, they are the older MIM vintage frets, and I'd prefer medium-jumbo. I hear that refretting a maple neck is a PITA, requires refinishing, more expensive than a MIM neck is worth, yadda, yadda, yadda. Even if I had somebody refret it, I have more work to do. There are a couple bad dings in the back of the neck that I need to drop-fill and sand out. You could buy a new (better) neck for what a refret will cost you. Unless you really want to keep the original neck, sell it and buy a new neck from Warmoth, USACG or Musikraft. -Chris Twitter @ChrisWeatherly1 Instagram @JCWeatherly Originally Posted by John Suhr Practice cures most tone issues.