It refers to one of the tonsils that are visually apparent on the right and left sides at the back of the throat. It is sometimes also referred to as “Faucial tonsil.”In Latin, it is known as “Tonsilla palatina”. Palatine tonsil Functions. This structure is mainly responsible for providing protection to the body from infection of the respiratory tract and the digestive system. It also assists the body in trapping bacteria, thus allowing the body the time to manufacture antibodies and destroy invading germs.
All rights reserved. The tonsils (palatine tonsils) are a pair of soft tissue masses located at the rear of the throat (pharynx). Each tonsil is composed of tissue similar to lymph nodes, covered by pink mucosa (like on the adjacent mouth lining). Running through the mucosa of each tonsil are pits, called crypts. The tonsils are part of the lymphatic system, which helps to fight infections. However, removal of the tonsils does not seem to increase susceptibility to infection. Tonsils vary widely in size and swell in response to infection. 1 Acute tonsillitis: A bacteria or virus infects the tonsils, causing swelling and a sore throat. 2  The tonsil may develop a gray or white coating (exudate). 3  Chronic tonsillitis: Persistent infection of the tonsils, sometimes as a result of repeated episodes of acute tonsillitis.
Your tonsils are gland-like structures in the back of your throat. You have one located in a pocket on each side. Tonsils are made of tissue that contains lymphocytes -- cells in your body that prevent and fight infections. 
Tonsillitis and its symptoms. Tonsillitis is an infection of the tonsils. One sign is swelling of the tonsils. Other symptoms are:  1  Redder than normal tonsils.  2  A white or yellow coating on the tonsils.  3  A slight voice change due to swelling.  4  Sore throat, sometimes accompanied by ear pain.  5  Uncomfortable or painful swallowing
Palatine tonsil Anatomy. It is round to oval in shape and is actually a lump of lymphoid tissue. These tonsils are mainly constituted by mucus membranes, nerves, veins and tiny lumps of lymphoid tissue. These also comprise of small pits, or pockets lined by epithelium, also known as crypts. Palatine tonsil Functions. This structure is mainly responsible for providing protection to the body from infection of the respiratory tract and the digestive system. It also assists the body in trapping bacteria, thus allowing the body the time to manufacture antibodies and destroy invading germs.
The tonsils are two lumps of tissue, each about the size and shape of a large olive, in the back of the mouth on either side of the tongue. When the tonsils are small (as in young babies and in most adults) they are barely visible. But they only represent a small portion of the body's defense systems; lymphoid tissue is present all along the lining of the nose, mouth and throat (as well as elsewhere throughout the body). The tonsils are just two lumps of this tissue that happen to stick out enough to be seen in the back of the mouth.
Tonsils and adenoids are the bodys first line of defense as part of the immune system. They sample bacteria and viruses that enter the body through the mouth or nose, but they sometimes become infected. Tonsillitis is an infection of the tonsils. One sign is swelling of the tonsils. Other symptoms are:  1  Redder than normal tonsils.  2  A white or yellow coating on the tonsils.  3  A slight voice change due to swelling.  4  Sore throat, sometimes accompanied by ear pain.  5  Uncomfortable or painful swallowing
Palatine tonsil Location. Tonsils of this type are situated behind the cavity of the mouth. It is implanted in the lateral wall of the pharynx that is located on either side of the fauces (the passage between the pharynx and the back of the mouth) placed between the posterior and anterior pillars of the soft palate. Palatine tonsil Functions. This structure is mainly responsible for providing protection to the body from infection of the respiratory tract and the digestive system. It also assists the body in trapping bacteria, thus allowing the body the time to manufacture antibodies and destroy invading germs.