Best Answer: I like italian dressing for chicken. It gives it a different taste, put your boneless, skinless chicken breastin a bowl of dressing first thing in the morning, make sure the chicken is complety covered with dressing (then put it in the fridge). Then when you are ready for dinner, just bake at 375 degree oven for about 30-40 minutes. I love Italian dressing (zesty, not creamy) and I experiment with different food groups to see what taste good and what doesn't. Let me tell you that Italian dressing is a perfect marinade for chicken, especially if you're grilling it. It gives it such a zesty flavor, and can go well with a side of rice or pasta.
1 In a glass 9 x 11 baking dish, place cleaned and trimmed chicken breasts, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. 2  Pour Italian salad dressing over to coat and let marinate in the fridge for 1 hour. 3  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Directions. 1  In a glass 9 x 11 baking dish, place cleaned and trimmed chicken breasts, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. 2  Pour Italian salad dressing over to coat and let marinate in the fridge for 1 hour.
Place chicken breasts in a resealable plastic bag or shallow, non-aluminum baking dish. Pour Italian dressing over the chicken to coat. Seal the plastic bag or cover the dish. Place in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to two hours. Use tongs to turn the chicken at least once while marinating. Remove the chicken from the refrigerator. Discard any Italian dressing that remains in the bag or dish. Grill the marinated chicken or bake in a 350 degree oven for 35 to 40 minutes.
1 After the hour of marinating, turn chicken breasts over and sprinkle evenly with oregano and grated parmesan cheese. 2  Bake in a 350 degree oven for 1 hour (or until juices run clear), checking after 45 minutes to make sure they do not get over-cooked. Directions. 1  In a glass 9 x 11 baking dish, place cleaned and trimmed chicken breasts, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. 2  Pour Italian salad dressing over to coat and let marinate in the fridge for 1 hour.
1 While Italian dressing is often used as a marinade, you can also use it to dip the chicken breasts in before coating them with bread crumbs. 2  Flatten the breasts slightly before dredging and bake on a greased pan for about 35 minutes in an oven set to 325 F. Tips. 1  While Italian dressing is often used as a marinade, you can also use it to dip the chicken breasts in before coating them with bread crumbs. 2  Flatten the breasts slightly before dredging and bake on a greased pan for about 35 minutes in an oven set to 325 F.
Bottled Italian dressing is a popular marinade, but this is so much fresher, and you can change the herbs to suit your taste. The small amount of mayonnaise helps emulsify the ingredients. Use for steak, pork, lamb, chicken, fish, scallops, shrimp, or vegetables. 
One of those ways is to use a marinade. Marinades can do two things. It can tenderize the chicken so it doesn't become tough when you cook it. The marinade can also add flavor to the chicken. You may have an Italian dressing marinade one night, and then use a milk-based marinade the next night. You will have two totally different tasting pieces of chicken. The important thing is to know how long to marinate the chicken
1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 2  After the hour of marinating, turn chicken breasts over and sprinkle evenly with oregano and grated parmesan cheese. 3  Bake in a 350 degree oven for 1 hour (or until juices run clear), checking after 45 minutes to make sure they do not get over-cooked. Directions. 1  In a glass 9 x 11 baking dish, place cleaned and trimmed chicken breasts, and season with salt and pepper, if desired. 2  Pour Italian salad dressing over to coat and let marinate in the fridge for 1 hour.