Vitamin C is found in many fresh fruits like the oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruit, cantaloupes, mangoes, papayas, and their juices. Vegetables such as bean sprouts, green peppers, plantains, broccoli and greens like kale and poke greens are also good sources of vitamin C. Vitamin C is not stored in the body. 
1 Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 2  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 3  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 4  Fortified breakfast cereals. Vitamin A is found naturally in many foods and is added to some foods, such as milk and cereal. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin A by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat).
Folic acid is found in yeast, liver, green vegetables, whole grain cereals and many other foods. The need for folic acid increases during pregnancy, due to high requirements of the vitamin from the fetus. Doctors often suggest a 300 mcg. daily supplement for pregnant women. Fortunately, these conditions can be reversed with the addition of the vitamin. Thiamine is found in whole-grain cereals, bread, red meat, egg yolks, green leafy vegetables, legumes, sweet corn, brown rice, berries, yeast, the germ and husks of grains and nuts.
1 Some types of fish, such as salmon. 2  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 3  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 4  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 5  Fortified breakfast cereals. Vitamin A is found naturally in many foods and is added to some foods, such as milk and cereal. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin A by eating a variety of foods, including the following: 1  Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat).
What food is vitamins and minerals found in? they are found in fruit and vegetables vitamin c can be found in strawberries, persimmon, citrus fruits, papaya, kiwi and pineapple. Mango contains diverse essential vitamins and dietary minerals, many of which are particularly high in content. The antioxidant vitamins A, C and E comprise 25%, 76% and 9%, r … espectively, of the Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) in a 165 g serving.
They are found in Dairy products, eggs, liver, vegetables, Yeast, wheatgerm, nuts, red meat, cereals, fruit, fish, wholemeal bread and sunflower seeds. Mango contains diverse essential vitamins and dietary minerals, many of which are particularly high in content. The antioxidant vitamins A, C and E comprise 25%, 76% and 9%, r … espectively, of the Dietary Reference Intake (DRI) in a 165 g serving.
Vitamin D is a nutrient found in some foods that is needed for health and to maintain strong bones. It does so by helping the body absorb calcium (one of bone's main building blocks) from food and supplements. 
­Th­e B-complex vitamins are found in brewer's yeast, liver, whole-grain cereals, rice, nuts, milk, eggs, meats, fish, fruits, leafy green vegetables and many other foods. Fortunately, these conditions can be reversed with the addition of the vitamin. Thiamine is found in whole-grain cereals, bread, red meat, egg yolks, green leafy vegetables, legumes, sweet corn, brown rice, berries, yeast, the germ and husks of grains and nuts.
Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the air. They can also be lost in water used for cooking. Fat-soluble vitamins. Fat-soluble vitamins are found mainly in fatty foods and animal products, such as vegetable oils, milk and dairy foods, eggs, liver, oily fish and butter. While your body needs these vitamins every day to work properly, you don't need to eat foods containing them every day