For a shorter period between planting and harvest, you may choose to start the onion seeds indoors eight to 12 weeks before the last frost date for your area and transplant seedlings outdoors when they grow to 1/4 inch in diameter, about two to four weeks before the last frost date for your area. These sets fully mature and are ready for harvest in about 2 months. Sets are also less susceptible to disease, but growing from sets limits your choice in onion varieties. Smaller sets produce best, so choose sets that are no larger than 1/2 inch in diameter for best results.
Onions can be grown from seeds, sets (young, small dormant bulbs grown the previous year), or transplants. Growing onions from seed can take as much as five months. You will find seed for many varieties or cultivars of onions. Sets are easer to plant than seeds or transplants. • Starting seeds. Sow onion seeds indoors 8 to 12 weeks before the last average frost date. Sow seeds in pots, flats, or trays. Thin seedlings to one inch apart when they are four inches tall.
| 7 Responses. close up of onion growing on the field. From planting to harvest depends on the type and whether they were started from sets (50 to 60 days), seeds (110-125 days), or transplants (70 to 90 days). Harvest when one-forth to one-half of the tops of the onions have fallen down. Planting onions from bulb sets is likely the quickest method for a gardener to establish vigorous and strong onions. Green onions can be harvested when they are around five inches high, the higher they are the stronger the flavor. If you planted from sets or transplants they will be ready to eat in about a month.
For the quickest harvest, plant onion sets, which are small, dormant plants grown the previous year. These sets fully mature and are ready for harvest in about 2 months. Sets are also less susceptible to disease, but growing from sets limits your choice in onion varieties. Smaller sets produce best, so choose sets that are no larger than 1/2 inch in diameter for best results.
Outdoors, sow seeds thickly in rows about 1/2 inch deep. You can try mixing in radish seeds both to mark the planted rows and as a trap crop to lure root maggots away from the onions. Thin seedlings to 1 inch apart, and thin again in four weeks to 6 inches apart. For transplants or sets, use a dibble to make planting holes 2 inches deep and 4 to 6 inches apart. Use the closer spacing if you plan to harvest some young plants as green onions. For sets, open a furrow 2 inches deep and place the sets stem (pointed) end up 4 to 6 inches apart, and then fill in the furrow. 
Space onion sets 4–6 inches (10.2–15.2 cm) apart, and onion seeds 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm) apart. As your onions begin to grow, you can transplant them and space them further apart in order to increase their growing size. 3. Plant the onions. Get the soil ready. When you’re ready to plant, till the soil about 6 inches (15.2 cm) deep and add a layer (1 cup per 20 feet) of phosphorous fertilizer. Using a mixture such as 10-20-10 or 0-20-0 will provide an extra boost for your developing onions.
I planted just the root end of the bulb in vermiculite but you could use soil. It took just a few days for the onion leaves to start growing. From seed, it could take a week or more for the seeds to germinate and emerge from the soil. In south Texas, onions seeds are planted in late summer, grow all winter and harvested in May and June. Source(s): Biology instructor for 39 years. saffronesque · 7 years ago
Starting onion plants from seed takes the longest for onions to fully grow, but seeds give you the most choices in variety. It can take up to five months for plants to mature enough to harvest. When starting onion plants from seed, allow the soil temperature to warm to at least 50 degrees Fahrenheit before sowing. In areas with mild winters, you can plant varieties of short-day onions four weeks before the first frost in fall. These sets fully mature and are ready for harvest in about 2 months. Sets are also less susceptible to disease, but growing from sets limits your choice in onion varieties. Smaller sets produce best, so choose sets that are no larger than 1/2 inch in diameter for best results.
1 Plant onions as soon as the ground can be worked in the spring, usually late March or April. 2  Make sure temperature doesn’t go below 20 degrees F. 3  For sets or transplants, plant the smaller sets 1 inch deep, with 4 to 5 inches between each plant and in rows 12 to 18 inches apart. About growing conditions and fertilizer, you won’t be able to grow large onions without the proper amount if nutrients and regular, even moisture. I would suggest 10-15-10 applied at 3 to 4 week intervals. If your soil is poor, you may have to fertilize every 2 weeks.
Part 2 of 2: Planting Your Onions. 1. Get the soil ready. When you’re ready to plant, till the soil about 6 inches (15.2 cm) deep and add a layer (1 cup per 20 feet) of phosphorous fertilizer. Using a mixture such as 10-20-10 or 0-20-0 will provide an extra boost for your developing onions.