As you can see, cardio workouts do have a small hand in muscle loss. But, the first thing you want to do is to keep your caloric intake high if you are doing cardio and muscle building workouts. You need it. You need the calories to burn so that you can keep your body healthy and moving. 
Long answer...Cardio workouts are great for burning fat and strengthening your heart. The longer your cardio workouts, the better they are at burning fat. Usually anything over 20 minutes is very effective at burning fat. As far as burning muscle. Many people who do a lot of cardio do not pay attention to what they eat. If you do not eat enough nutrients and calories to replace what you burn in exercise, then you will start to burn fat and protein. Protein of course is the main building block of muscle. It does help to increase some of your muscle building exercises as well (weight lifting), as this will cause your body to build your muscles. Secondly, increased muscle mass raises your metabolic rate, and therefore results in lowered body fat, and a better cardiovascular system. Keep up the weight and cardio training.
Cardio does not burn muscle mass, crash diets and bad nutrition burn muscle mass! 20-40min cardio every day is not only good for your health but it can help you add muscle as well. There are some situations where muscle gets burned, lets look at those in depth so you can avoid them. I know you are used to hearing that “cardio burns muscle” but I’m going to show you why that’s wrong. Cardio does NOT hurt your ability to gain muscle at all and it might even HELP you to ADD muscle mass.
Doing cardio along with a crash diet, will further increase the loss of your muscle mass. In summary, to avoid any possible problems, don’t do crash diets! So it is not necessarily the cardio that is burning the muscle, is the lack of calories, dangerously low body fat percentage, and protein intake. 1 In the fitness world, cardio performed at medium to high intensity for OVER an hour is seen as the marker for your body to enter the muscle burning state. 2  Try to keep your cardio within the hour and it will be very safe that your body will not lose your lean
To summarize, avoid fasted cardio when you're trying to lose fat and are not using an anabolic aid. (Mag-10 works perfectly for that purpose.) Do cardio in the post-absorptive state to preserve muscle mass and will have the greatest impact on your fat loss over a 24-hour period. 1 Do not try to burn more calories via weight lifting. 2  If you decide to do cardio, choose low-intensity cardio, high-intensity/short duration cardio, or loaded carries and make sure to be in a post-absorptive state. 3  Also, avoid doing cardio at night. 4  Do not try to correct lagging muscle groups when in a caloric deficit.
Your body will only burn muscle if you are not consuming a sufficient amount of calories. So the idea that cardio “burns” muscle is based on the amount of calories you are consuming, and if you don’t consume enough calories, your body will start to eat your muscles for energy. 1 In the fitness world, cardio performed at medium to high intensity for OVER an hour is seen as the marker for your body to enter the muscle burning state. 2  Try to keep your cardio within the hour and it will be very safe that your body will not lose your lean muscle mass.
Thus if you were to do cardio after your workout, your body will have no choice but to force the burning of the fat for its source of energy. That is because that is absolutely no more nutrients left in your body to be used, as you have already spent a good 99% of it on your weight training. So for the guys who want to get big without losing muscle and just want to do enough cardio to stay balanced, well doing cardio three days a week for 30-45 minutes at 60-75% of your max heart rate is enough that you will maintain and get benefits for your cardio system and you also will NOT lose muscle.
1 If you are not consuming enough protein your body will burn muscle, this is often the case in crash diets. “ 2 Essential Amino Acids” are called essential for a reason, your must eat them in sufficient quantities or your body has no choice other than to cannibalize your muscles to get them. I know you are used to hearing that “cardio burns muscle” but I’m going to show you why that’s wrong. Cardio does NOT hurt your ability to gain muscle at all and it might even HELP you to ADD muscle mass.
Yes, you can burn muscle from doing too much cardio, but you can also not burn muscle. It really just depends on how much you do and how you do it. So in reality, the answer is no, cardio does not burn muscle; training in an incorrect way is what burns muscle. Whenever you exercise (or do any type of physical activity) your body has a pattern it follows. First, you burn carbs, then you burn fat and THEN you burn protein, which is what causes muscle loss. So it’s not the cardio that burns muscle, it’s the lack of proper diet and/or rest that burns muscle.