DEFINITION of 'Inflation'. Inflation is the rate at which the general level of prices for goods and services is rising and, consequently, the purchasing power of currency is falling. Central banks attempt to limit inflation, and avoid deflation, in order to keep the economy running smoothly. Next Up
DEFINITION of 'Deflation'. A general decline in prices, often caused by a reduction in the supply of money or credit. Deflation can be caused also by a decrease in government, personal or investment spending. 
In economics, inflation is a sustained increase in the general price level of goods and services in an economy over a period of time. When the price level rises, each unit of currency buys fewer goods and services. Consequently, inflation reflects a reduction in the purchasing power per unit of money – a loss of real value in the medium of exchange and unit of account within the economy. 1 Inflation reduces unemployment to the extent that unemployment is caused by nominal wage rigidity. 2  When demand for labor falls but nominal wages do not, as typically occurs during a recession, the supply and demand for labor cannot reach equilibrium, and unemployment results.
Definition of 'Inflation'. Tweet. Inflation is the percentage change in the value of the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) on a year-on year basis. Definition: Inflation is the percentage change in the value of the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) on a year-on year basis. It effectively measures the change in the prices of a basket of goods and services in a year
Definition of Inflation. Inflation means a sustained increase in the aggregate or general price level in an economy. Inflation means there is an increase in the cost of living. “inflation means that your money won’t buy as much today as you could yesterday. ”. In the UK the rate of inflation has varied a lot from 25% a year in 1974 to the deflation in the 1920s and 1930s.
This definition includes some of the basic economics of inflation and would seem to indicate that inflation is not defined as the increase in prices but as the increase in the supply of money that causes the increase in prices i.e. inflation is a cause rather than an effect. A simple way to define inflation is “an increase in the price you pay for goods” but that only tells part of the story…. It could also be seen as a “decline in the purchasing power of your money”. But there is more to inflation than that.
2. : a continuing rise in the general price level usually attributed to an increase in the volume of money and credit relative to available goods and services. See inflation defined for English-language learners. Full Definition of INFLATION. 1. : an act of inflating: a state of being inflated: as a: distension b: a hypothetical extremely brief period of very rapid expansion of the universe immediately following the big bang c: empty pretentiousness: pomposity. 2
Define Inflation: A simple way to define inflation is “an increase in the price you pay for goods” but that only tells part of the story…. It could also be seen as a “decline in the purchasing power of your money”. But there is more to inflation than that.