Cats are quadripedal while humans are bipedal. This structure, I think, gives cats benefits especially in running and jumping. Second, if you see the leg muscles, you can see the ration between the size of those muscles compared to the body. And when you compare it with human, I can say that cats have a bigger ratio. Cats may have proportionally more powerful muscles as a result of these pressures, or they may just be arranged in a more advantageous way (the bend of their back legs is opposite to that of humans, but allows for a better 'spring' when jumping). Fri Jun 15, 2007 6:18 pm. .
All cats have elliptical pupils and round corneas with almond shaped eyes. The dilation of the pupil is controlled through two shutter-like ciliary muscles. A cat's eyes function better in low light conditions and it has been suggested that cats are really nocturnal animals. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Great question! All cats have vertical pupils because they are nocturnal, but different breeds have different shaped eyes. So, when a cat's pupils dilate, it may seem as though they have rounder eyes. Cats pupils will dilate for different reason
Most of the cat muscles are similar in shape and location as they are in humans; however their function is somewhat different. Human’s muscles are much more versatile as a whole, and the muscles that are most developed are different in humans then they are in cats, purely based on their bi/quadruped stature. Humans require much more muscles in the back and abdomen and well as the thigh in order to retain their upright stature. In a cat, it is smaller than the pectoralis minor. Originates at the sternum and inserts at the humerus. The pectoralis major also assists in allowing the arm to be brought closer to the middle of the chest.
Your report should include 1) the muscles of the cat that are not found in the human (hint: there are 3) and explain why they may not be present and 2) which muscles in the cat have a different shape or orientation from those found in the human (hint: there are 4) and explain why they are different. # 1 5. Can anyone find info on this? the rationale for using the cat to study musculature in a Human Anatomy and Physiology Course.
Dog anatomy includes the same internal structures that are in humans. Details of structures vary tremendously from breed to breed, more than in any other animal species, wild or domesticated, as dogs are highly variable in height and weight. 
That may be why they need such good night vision. Their eyes have six to eight times more rod cells, which are more sensitive to low light, than humans do. In addition, cats' elliptical eye shape and larger corneas and tapetum, a layer of tissue that may reflect light back to the retina, help gather more light as well. Night creatures. Cats have a wider field of view — about 200 degrees, compared with humans' 180-degree view. Cats also have a greater range of peripheral vision, all the better to spot that mouse (or toy) wriggling in the corner. Cats are crepuscular, meaning they are active at dawn and dusk
A human's legs and cat's back legs are different due to different  movements each make and how they are structured. In a cat, the  lower rear leg anterior has a tibialis ant … erior muscle. In a human,  anterior has tibialis interior and extensor digitorum longus  muscle. Humans have a single large trapezius muscle, but the cat has three sperate muscles-the clavotrapezius, acroliotrapezius, and spinotrapezius-that together perdorm a similar f … unction. 10 people found this useful. Fernando Garcia.