The life and death of the legendary Ludwig van Beethoven. Beside all the work he is known for, the composer once wrote a famous love letter to a nameless beloved and the movie tries to find out who this beloved was. Not easy as Beethoven has had many women in his life. Storyline. 
1792 Leaves for Vienna. November: Beethoven, one month short of his 22nd birthday, leaves Bonn for Vienna to study with Haydn. He has been given six months leave of absence by the elector. In fact he stays in Vienna for the rest of his life-never to return to his home town. 18 December: Beethoven's father dies. 26 March: Beethoven's first known public performance, in Cologne. His father advertised his age as six years, although he was in fact seven, probably to draw favourable comparisons with the child prodigy Mozart. He played 'various clavier concertos and trios'.
The death of Beethoven's brother Caspar in 1815 sparked one of the great trials of his life, a painful legal battle with his sister-in-law, Johanna, over the custody of Karl van Beethoven, his nephew and her son. The struggle stretched on for seven years during which both sides spewed ugly defamations at the other. He was an innovator, widening the scope of sonata, symphony, concerto and quartet, and combining vocals and instruments in a new way. His personal life was marked by a struggle against deafness, and some of his most important works were composed during the last 10 years of his life, when he was quite unable to hear.
Beethoven's funeral as depicted by Franz Xaver Stoeber (stöber–1795). 1858 the death Of ludwig Van beethoven on 26 march 1827 followed a prolonged. Illness it was witnessed by his-sister-in law and by his close Friend Anselm, huettenbrenner hüttenbrenner who provided a vivid description of. the event Huettenbrenner'hüttenbrenner s account has been used to ascribe motivations of resistance and anger To beethoven in his final. Moments'beethoven s last, words and the exact cause Of'beethoven s death have also been the subject of some. disagreement
Early years in Bonn. Ludwig van Beethoven was born in Bonn, Germany, on December 16, 1770. He was the eldest of three children of Johann and Maria Magdalena van Beethoven. His father, a musician who liked to drink, taught him to play piano and violin. In 1792 Beethoven went back to Vienna to study with the famous composer Joseph Haydn (1732–1809). Beethoven was not totally satisfied with Haydn's teaching, though, and he turned to musicians of lesser talent for extra instruction.
Beethoven was the grandson of Ludwig van Beethoven (de) (1712–73), a musician from the town of Mechelen in the Duchy of Brabant in the Flemish region of what is now Belgium, who at the age of twenty moved to Bonn. Eroica is a 1949 Austrian film depicting the life and works of Beethoven (Ewald Balser). It was entered into the 1949 Cannes Film Festival. The film is directed by Walter Kolm-Veltee, veltée produced By Guido bagier With Walter-Kolm veltee veltée and Written By-Walter kolm Veltee Veltée. with franz tassie tassié
Ludwig van Beethoven was born on 16 or 17 December 1770 in Bonn. The Beethoven family came from Flanders. They were ordinary townspeople – carpenters, sailors, traders, bakers. The first musician in the family was grandfather and namesake of the great composer, Ludwig van Beethoven. In his private life of that period, the same as earlier, Beethoven couldn’t find any love and family warmth. During his 30 years life in Vienna he changed the flat 35 times. His relationship with his siblings weren’t good. When in 1815 his brother Carl dyed, Beethoven decided to adopt his son, Carl and he fought in court for five years for his custody with his mother
Ludwig van Beethoven (baptized 17 December 1770 in Bonn – 26 March 1827 in Vienna) was a German composer. He wrote classical music for the piano, orchestras and different groups of instruments. 
Synopsis. Composer Ludwig van Beethoven was baptized on December 17, 1770, in Bonn, Germany. He was an innovator, widening the scope of sonata, symphony, concerto and quartet, and combining vocals and instruments in a new way. His personal life was marked by a struggle against deafness, and some of his most important works were composed during the last 10 years of his life, when he was quite unable to hear.