These hush puppies are quick and easy to prepare, using pancake mix and cornmeal for the batter. Directions. 1  Heat vegetable oil to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C). 2  In a large mixing bowl, combine corn meal, baking powder, salt, milk, and water. 3  Shape the batter into small balls, approximately 1 tablespoon each. 4  Use a long handled spoon to gently slide the hush puppies into the hot oil.
Directions. 1  In a large bowl, combine the cornmeal, flour, baking powder and salt. 2  Whisk the egg, milk and onion; add to dry ingredients just until combined. 3  In a deep-fat fryer or electric skillet, heat oil to 365°. 4  Drop batter by teaspoonfuls into oil. 
Hush Puppies-An American Legend. In 1958, Hush Puppies created the world's first casual shoe, signaling the beginning of today's relaxed style. By utilizing supple suede in combination with lightweight crepe soles, Hush Puppies created a soft, breathable and very comfortable shoe-an innovation that would ultimately change the kind of shoes we wear.
A hushpuppy (or cornbread ball) is a savory food made from cornmeal batter that is deep fried or baked rolled as a small ball or occasionally other shapes. Hushpuppies are frequently served as a side dish. 
Recipe: Hush Puppies. A fish fry and barbecue staple, hush puppies are made from a six-ingredient batter, which is dropped by spoonfuls into hot oil to cook. 
I'm a southern girl and these are definitely the best hushpuppies I have ever eaten, very light and delicious! DIANNE G. 2011-08-13T17:32:39Z item not reviewed by moderator and published. Too much buttermilk (use 3/4 cup and not enough flavor. I'm thinking it's like a meatloaf recipe that only included the meat. 
A Hush Puppies shoe on a man's foot. Hush Puppies is an American internationally marketed brand of contemporary, casual footwear for men, women and children. The shoes have been described as the classic American brushed-suede shoes with the lightweight crepe sole. A division of Wolverine Worldwide, Hush Puppies is headquartered in Rockford, Michigan. Wolverine markets or licenses the Hush Puppies name for footwear in over 120 countries throughout the world. 
1 Shape the batter into small balls, approximately 1 tablespoon each. 2  Use a long handled spoon to gently slide the hush puppies into the hot oil. 3  Cook 8 or 10 at a time, until golden brown. 4  Remove from the oil with a slotted spoon, and roll on paper towels to briefly drain. Directions. 1  Heat vegetable oil to 365 degrees F (185 degrees C). 2  In a large mixing bowl, combine corn meal, baking powder, salt, milk, and water. 3  Shape the batter into small balls, approximately 1 tablespoon each. 4  Use a long handled spoon to gently slide the hush puppies into the hot oil.
No Southern fish fry is complete without deep-fried Hush Puppies. Simple ingredients make these puppies a favorite side. 