Twinning (making a twin of) may refer to: 1  In biology and agriculture, producing two offspring (i.e., twins) at a time, or having a tendency to do so; 1 In biology and agriculture, producing two offspring (i.e., twins) at a time, or having a tendency to do so; 2  Twin towns and sister cities, towns and cities involved in town twinning. 3  Twinning of other public spaces, inspired by the above, notable examples include toilets and social centers.
» more... 1  Twinning is represented only by twinlamellae, which are parallel to the planes m and f and are of secondary origin, having been produced by pressure. 
Crystal twinning occurs when two separate crystals share some of the same crystal lattice points in a symmetrical manner. The result is an intergrowth of two separate crystals in a variety of specific configurations. A twin boundary or composition surface separates the two crystals. Crystallographers classify twinned crystals by a number of twin laws. These twin laws are specific to the crystal system. The type of twinning can be a diagnostic tool in mineral identification. Twinning can often be a problem in X-ray crystallography, as a twinned crystal does not produce a simple diffraction pattern. If these multiple twins are aligned in parallel they are called polysynthetic twins. When the multiple twins are not parallel they are cyclic twins. Albite, calcite, and pyrite often show polysynthetic twinning.
Twinning, Polymorphism, Polytypism, Pseudomorphism. Twinning in Crystals. Sometimes during the growth of a crystal, or if the crystal is subjected to stress or temperature/pressure conditions different from those under which it originally formed, two or more intergrown crystals are formed in a symmetrical fashion. These symmetrical intergrowths of crystals are called twinned crystals. 1 Contact Twins-have a planar composition surface separating 2 individual crystals. 2  These are usually defined by a twin law that expresses a twin plane (i.e. an added mirror plane). 3  An example shown here is a crystal of orthoclase twinned on the Braveno Law, with {021} as the twin plane.
2. the simultaneous intrauterine production of two or more embryos. Twinning is a desirable feature in animals that depend for their profitability on the production of young, e.g. lambs of the meat-producing breeds, and selection for the characteristic is a standard husbandry strategy.
Twinning is a VH1 reality show that premiered on July 22, 2015. It features twelve sets of identical twins, testing their “twin-tuition” in mental and physical challenges. The show is hosted by Angie Greenup. 
Twinning (crystallography). A process in which two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, assume orientations such that one may be brought to coincidence with the other by reflection across a plane or by rotation about an axis. Twinning of calcite by the pressure of a blade (Baumhauer’s method). If the structural homogeneity of a single crystal is disrupted by a great number of twin formations, the crystal is called a polysynthetic twin (Figure 3).
The principles of mechanical crystal twinning are used in geology in the diagnosis of minerals and for determining the conditions of rock formation. The distribution of twinned crystal layers in rock-forming minerals makes it possible to characterize the influences to which the rock was subjected. Twinning of calcite by the pressure of a blade (Baumhauer’s method). If the structural homogeneity of a single crystal is disrupted by a great number of twin formations, the crystal is called a polysynthetic twin (Figure 3).
Twinning (noun). the assemblage of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other in accordance with some definite law; also, rarely, in artificial twinning (accomplished for example by pressure), the process by which this reversal is brought about. 