When signs and symptoms are severe or the infection persists, doctors usually treat giardiasis with medications such as: 1  Metronidazole (Flagyl). 2  Metronidazole is the most commonly used antibiotic for giardia infection. 3  Side effects may include nausea and a metallic taste in the mouth. 1 Tinidazole works as well as metronidazole and has many of the same side effects, but it can be given in a single dose. 2  Nitazoxanide (Alinia). 3  Because it comes in a liquid form, nitazoxanide may be easier for children to swallow. 4  Side effects may include nausea, flatulence, yellow eyes and brightly colored yellow urine.
Directions: •. Metronidazole is a prescription antibiotic used in dogs and cats to treat various conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease, nonspecific diarrhea disorders, infections caused by Giardia, and periodontal disease. What is the most important information I should know about Metronidazole: Metronidazole is not FDA-approved for use in veterinary medicine; however, it is a commonly accepted practice for veterinarians to use this medication in dogs and cats.
In the Female: One-day treatment-two grams of FLAGYL, given either as a single dose or in two divided doses of one gram each, given in the same day. Seven-day course of treatment - 250 mg three times daily for seven consecutive days. Anaerobic Bacterial Infections. In the treatment of most serious anaerobic infections, intravenous metronidazole is usually administered initially. The usual adult oral dosage is 7.5 mg/kg every six hours (approx. 500 mg for a 70-kg adult). A maximum of 4 g should not be exceeded during a 24-hour period
1 Metronidazole (Flagyl). 2  Metronidazole is the most commonly used antibiotic for giardia infection. 3  Side effects may include nausea and a metallic taste in the mouth. 4  Don't drink alcohol while taking this medication. 1 Tinidazole works as well as metronidazole and has many of the same side effects, but it can be given in a single dose. 2  Nitazoxanide (Alinia). 3  Because it comes in a liquid form, nitazoxanide may be easier for children to swallow. 4  Side effects may include nausea, flatulence, yellow eyes and brightly colored yellow urine.
The most common drug used to kill Giardia is metronidazole, an antibiotic. It is normally given for five to seven days to treat giardiasis. Another antiparasitic drug, fenbendazole, is suggested as a potentially useful treatment, especially when used in conjunction with metronidazole. Giardiasis is an intestinal infection of man and animals caused by a protozoan parasite Giardia intestinalis (also known as Giardia lamblia).
1 Metronidazole is the most commonly used antibiotic for giardia infection. 2  Side effects may include nausea and a metallic taste in the mouth. 3  Don't drink alcohol while taking this medication. 4  Tinidazole (Tindamax). 1 Tinidazole works as well as metronidazole and has many of the same side effects, but it can be given in a single dose. 2  Nitazoxanide (Alinia). 3  Because it comes in a liquid form, nitazoxanide may be easier for children to swallow. 4  Side effects may include nausea, flatulence, yellow eyes and brightly colored yellow urine.
Metronidazole, also known as Flagyl ® , is a multi-purpose antibiotic often used to treat dogs. While it’s not yet approved for use in animals by the FDA, it is commonly prescribed by vets for the treatment of Giardia and anaerobic bacterial infections. Dog’s Weight In Pounds: Dosage In Mg: Most metronidazole tablets contain 250 or 500 mg of active ingredient per pill. There are also extended-release capsules made for humans, but because dogs have a shorter digestive tract than us these do not work well and usually pass through the system only partially digested.
Metronidazole (also known as Flagyl) is a first-line treatment (9). Dosage: Adult: 250mg per oral three times a day, for 5-7 days. Child: 5 mg/kg per oral three times a day, for 5-7 days (14). Contraindications: if patient has documented hypersensitivity, or pregnancy (there are potential risks, must outweigh risks). 1 More than one sample is recommended (at least 3 stool samples with two days between each), since the presence of cysts in the stool can be highly irregular, and cysts may not be present until a week after symptoms appear.
The correct dosage will depend on the condition being treated. When treating Giardia it is often given at a dosage of 7 to 11 mg/lb every 24 hours, but up to 29.5 mg/lb can be used. For anaerobic bacterial infections the dosage can be anywhere between 11 and 22 mg/lb given twice daily. Dog’s Weight In Pounds: Dosage In Mg: Most metronidazole tablets contain 250 or 500 mg of active ingredient per pill. There are also extended-release capsules made for humans, but because dogs have a shorter digestive tract than us these do not work well and usually pass through the system only partially digested.