You must have noticed that the normal hemoglobin level varies according to the age and gender. Babies tend to have a higher hemoglobin range, as their bodies are trying to grow and get the organs into a fully functioning mode. Thus, the respiratory rate is also very high in newborns. The normal hemoglobin range for women is slightly on the lower side compared to that of men. This is because, women lose blood during menstruation. Normal hemoglobin level tends to rise slightly during pregnancy, as there is an increased need for oxygen in the body.
The normal range of hemoglobin (also haemoglobin) varies in men, women, and children. The normal range of hemoglobin in male is 13.5 to 18gm/dl (gram per deciliter). For female it is 12 to 16gm/dl (gram per deciliter). In a children 11 to 16gm/dl (gram per deciliter). And for a pregnant woman 11 to 12g/dl (gram per deciliter) is the normal range of hemoglobin. If the hemoglobin is below normal, this is called anemia. 
MICROCYTIC ANEMIAS. The most prevalent and preventable form of microcytic anemia is iron deficiency anemia. 1 The prevalence of iron deficiency anemia in the United States ranges from 3 to 10 percent and may be as high as 30 percent in low-income populations. 
Description. Hemoglobin is the main component of red blood cells and serves as the transporter for oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood. Hemoglobin concentration (Hb) is usually reported as grams of hemoglobin per deciliter of blood (g/dL). Hb is commonly measured by the cyanhemoglobin (hemoglobin cyanide) method. 
High/Low Hemoglobin Levels. Some people have a naturally high hemoglobin level, which is mostly seen as an adaptive change. For example, people who live at high altitudes tend to have higher levels of hemoglobin, to make up for the insufficient amount of oxygen in the atmosphere. The normal hemoglobin range for women is slightly on the lower side compared to that of men. This is because, women lose blood during menstruation. Normal hemoglobin level tends to rise slightly during pregnancy, as there is an increased need for oxygen in the body.
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells.
Normal Hemoglobin Range. The hemoglobin level is an important indicator of the health condition of a person. This article provides some information about the normal hemoglobin level in kids and adults. The normal hemoglobin range for women is slightly on the lower side compared to that of men. This is because, women lose blood during menstruation. Normal hemoglobin level tends to rise slightly during pregnancy, as there is an increased need for oxygen in the body.
HbA1c facts. 1  Hemoglobin A1c, often abbreviated HbA1c, is a form of hemoglobin (a blood pigment that carries oxygen) that is bound to glucose. 2  The blood test for HbA1c is routinely performed in people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Reference ranges for blood tests, sorted logarithmically by mass above the scale and by molarity below. Hormones predominate at the left part of the scale, shown with a red at ng/L or pmol/L, being in very low concentration. 