1 How can I put a friend on 'limited profile' so they can't se... 2  How do I remove pictures off of someone else's profile when...
It's also possible to make use of your limited profile here. Namely, you can configure Facebook Chat such that users who can see only your limited profile don't appear in your list of online friends -- even if they're online -- and you won't appear in theirs.
Page profile picture. Pages » Managing a Page » Pages Basics. Your Page's profile picture is the square picture at the top of your Page's Timeline. This picture also appears next to your Page's posts and other activity on Facebook... See More.
When you add a friend to your limited profile list on Facebook, he becomes unable to see content you've restricted from members of the list. The privacy settings Facebook rolled out in August 2011 restrict all content you post from members of the limited profile list. If you want members of your limited profile list to see content you post in the future, you can manually adjust the privacy settings for the post in question.
Customizing What Limited Profile Friends See. Once you've added at least one friend to the limited profile list, select Privacy Settings from the Account drop-down menu. Select Custom from under Control Your Default Privacy, then type Limited Profile into the Hide This From field.
Alternatively, select Friends from the main Facebook page, then click Friends Lists and Limited Profile.. Type in the name of any friend you want to add to the list, then hit Enter.. Related Reading: How to Block Who Sees Profile Pictures on Facebook.
Facebook allows you to limit access when you befriend someone. When you add someone as a friend -- or, if he adds you, when you accept his request -- click Add to List and select Limited Profile to limit him. Doing so will allow your friend to access only your limited profile.
Under Facebook's new privacy settings, adding someone to the limited profile list prevents him from seeing any content you post to Facebook by default, including status updates, photos and contact information.