Here are the answers to those questions and many more. Hens and eggs. 1  Female chickens are called pullets for their first year or until they begin to lay eggs. 2  For most breeds, around 20 weeks is a typical age for the first egg. 3  Some breeds lay eggs daily, some every other day, some once or twice a week. 1 For most breeds, around 20 weeks is a typical age for the first egg. 2  Some breeds lay eggs daily, some every other day, some once or twice a week. 3  Some individual hens never lay eggs, due to narrow pelvises or other anomalies.
1 Skeletal size has some impact on egg size. 2  Hens with bigger and longer bones tend to become bigger hens and lay bigger eggs. 3  The protein level in the ration fed before 10 weeks of age is the main factor influencing skeletal size of any particular breed of hen. While you cannot alter the basic pattern of how egg size changes as hens age, the feeding and management of your hens can have a measurable impact on egg size. The way that you treat your hens will determine how quickly they will start to lay Large, Extra Large or Jumbo eggs.
The laying cycle of a chicken flock usually covers a span of about 12 months. Egg production begins when the birds reach about 18-22 weeks of age, depending on the breed and season. Flock production rises sharply and reaches a peak of about 90%, 6-8 weeks later. Production then gradually declines to about 65% after 12 months of lay. A typical production curve for a laying flock, showing changes in the level of egg production and in egg weight, over time, is given in Figure 1. Infection with the fowl pox virus will cause the chickens to have poor growth, poor feed conversion and a precipitous fall in egg production. Fowl pox may affect any age bird. It is transmittedby direct contact with an infected chicken or by mosquitos.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONEffect of Hen’s Age Age of the hens had a significant effect on the wholeegg, white, and yolk solids, and on yolk:white ratio ofeggs. The solids content of whole egg ranged from 23.2 to24.6%, and was 1 to 2% lower than that reported by Posatiand Orr (1976). The solids content of whole egg increasedwith the age of hens, and the eggs from 28-wk-old henshad 0.8 to 1.4% lower whole egg solids content than otherage groups. The solids content of white was the greatest inthe eggs from 28-wk-old hens and the least in55-wk-old hens, differing by 1.5%. The number of eggs broken for useas liquid egg products increased over 10% during pastfew years, and egg use in egg products is projected toconstitute 50% of total egg consumption by the year2,000 (Owings, 1995).
No laying hen, however, can meet the ideal standard of laying a Large egg everyday. All hens start egg production laying Pee Wee or Small eggs and gradually increase to a mature egg grade size of Medium, Large or bigger. In modern breeds, most hens are laying Large, Extra Large or Jumbo eggs by 40 weeks of age. While you cannot alter the basic pattern of how egg size changes as hens age, the feeding and management of your hens can have a measurable impact on egg size. The way that you treat your hens will determine how quickly they will start to lay Large, Extra Large or Jumbo eggs.
Although the age of the egg and the conditions of its storage have a greater influence, the bird's diet does affect the flavor of the egg. For example, when a brown-egg chicken breed eats rapeseed or soy meals, its intestinal microbes metabolize them into fishy-smelling triethylamine, which ends up in the egg. 
Feeding. How much a hen eats depends upon the hen's size, the rate of egg production, temperature in the laying house and the energy level of the feed. In general, about 4 pounds of feed are required to produce a dozen eggs. A Leghorn chicken eats about 1/4 pound of feed per day. Molting flock. Molting, or loss of feathers, is a natural occurrence common to all birds regardless of species. As the hen ages, egg quality declines and, at about 18 to 20 months of age, molting occurs and egg production ceases. After a rest period of 4 to 8 weeks, the birds start producing again. Housing. Housing is a very important part in egg production
1 Lighting programs influence egg size by accelerating or delaying the age at which hens start to lay eggs. 2  The younger a hen is when she starts egg production, the smaller her eggs will be during her first year of life. While you cannot alter the basic pattern of how egg size changes as hens age, the feeding and management of your hens can have a measurable impact on egg size. The way that you treat your hens will determine how quickly they will start to lay Large, Extra Large or Jumbo eggs.