On April 26, 1986, the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant's reactor No. 4 blew up after a cooling capability test, and the resulting nuclear fire lasted 10 days, spewing 400 times as much radiation as the bomb dropped on Hiroshima. To date, it's the world's worst nuclear accident.
Chernobyl in 1999: Human error was a major factor Reactor Four at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant began to fail in the early hours of 26 April, 1986. Seven seconds after the operators activated the 20-second shut down system, there was a power surge.
The 1986 accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, then part of the former Soviet Union, is the only accident in the history of commercial nuclear power to cause fatalities from radiation. It was the product of a severely flawed Soviet-era reactor design combined with human error.
At 1:23 am on April 26, 1986, the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant operators committed a fatal series of errors here in the control room of Reactor #4, triggering a meltdown and an explosion that resulted in the world's largest nuclear accident to date.
In the early morning hours of April 26, 1986, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine (formerly part of the Soviet Union) exploded, creating what has been described as the worst nuclear disaster the world has ever seen.
Construction of the sarcophagus (cover) over the destroyed Chernobyl reactor. On April 26, 1986, a major accident occurred at Unit 4 of the nuclear power station at Chernobyl, Ukraine, in the former USSR.
Chernobyl was a nuclear power plant in the former Soviet Union. On 26 April 1986, it suffered a massive failure which caused it to spread radioactive waste across large parts … of Europe.    The accident began with a steam explosion that caused a fire, more explosions, and a subsequent nuclear meltdown.
On April 26, 1986, the world’s worst nuclear accident happened at the Chernobyl plant near Pripyat, Ukraine, in the Soviet Union. An explosion and fire in the No. 4 reactor sent radioactivity into the atmosphere.