Other elements of the Carboniferous coal swamp forests were the tree-like Calamites (Fig. 1) which belong to the group of the sphenopsids. These could be up to 20 m high and grew predominantly in very wet environments like at lake margins. Most common are the pith casts, the infillings of the central cavity. 
Coal forests covered tropical Euramerica (Europe, eastern North America, northwesternmost Africa) and Cathaysia (mainly China). Climate change devastated these tropical rainforests during the Carboniferous period. As vegetable matter from these forests decayed, enormous deposits of peat accumulated, which later changed into coal. Much of the carbon in the peat deposits produced by coal forests came from photosynthetic splitting of existing carbon dioxide, which released the accompanying split-off oxygen into the atmosphere.
Lepidodendron is an extinct genus of primitive (tree-like) plant. They were the first large land plants, and a major part of the coal forest tropical flora. They were huge, over 30 metres (100 feet), and the trunks were often over 1 m (3.3 ft) in diameter. Sometimes called 'giant club mosses', they are actually closer to the quillworts Isoetes than to clubmosses.
Coal is currently produced from six national forest units in five states from both surface and underground mines. Coal production for National Forest System lands accounts for over 25% of the coal produced in the U.S. Managing coal activity also requires the Forest Service to interact with the Interior Department’s Office of Surface Mining, or OSM, and individual State agencies under the terms of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977. Under this law, these agencies are responsible for issuing coal mining permits.
Ferns were a common component of coal-forming ecosystems from the Carboniferous and Permian periods, just as in many environments today. They vary from small shrub-sized plants to large tree-ferns. The rich habitats provided by the coal swamps were home to a diverse array of animal life, chiefly invertebrate arthropods. Arachnids such as scorpions and trigonotarbids (Fig. 6a) were among the dominant predators of the Carboniferous forests.
Plant Life and the Coal Forests. The plants of the Pennsylvanian are among the best known of all geological time periods, thanks to fossils found in the world’s abundant coal seams. In the coal-swamp forests of Euramerica, plant organs such as the stems of marattialean ferns, the leaves of seed ferns, the prepollen of cordaites, and the sporangia of herbaceous ferns were being consumed by a plethora of chewing and piercing-and-sucking insects.
Coal forests. At the end of the Carboniferous, shallow seas drained away leaving broad coastal plains covered in swampy forests in their stead. These lasted right through until the Permian period. Iolo's Natural History of Wales. Vast carbon deposits from the giant plants of Wales' tropical forests formed today's coal fields.
Coal. Coal is an organic sedimentary rock that forms mainly from plant debris, and contains at least 50% (by weight) carbon compounds. The plant debris usually accumulates in a swamp environment. Coal is combustible (i.e. it burns) and is often mined for use as a fuel. Managing coal activity also requires the Forest Service to interact with the Interior Department’s Office of Surface Mining, or OSM, and individual State agencies under the terms of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977. Under this law, these agencies are responsible for issuing coal mining permits.
Etching depicting some of the most significant plants of the Carboniferous. Coal forests were the vast swathes of wetlands that covered much of the Earth's tropical land areas during the late Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian) and Permian times. As vegetable matter from these forests decayed, enormous deposits of peat accumulated, which later changed into coal. Much of the carbon in the peat deposits produced by coal forests came from photosynthetic splitting of existing carbon dioxide, which released the accompanying split-off oxygen into the atmosphere.