Postmenopause follows perimenopause and lasts the rest of your life. The average age of a woman having her last period, menopause, is 51. But, some women have their last period in their forties, and some have it later in their fifties. Smoking can lead to early menopause. So can some types of operations. 
Any individual woman can vary quite a lot compared with an average. For instance, although the average age of menopause in developed countries is 51.4 years, there is a range from a low of about age 40 (early), to a high or late menopause age of 58 years. The average age of menopause depends on the population studied to calculate the average. Most women stop menstruating around the age of 50, and the average age in the developed world is 51.4 years (1).
The average age of menopause in the United States is 51, but it is considered perfectly normal for a woman to go through it at any time between the ages of 35 and 59, says Lila Schmidt, MD, a reproductive endocrinologist in private practice in San Diego. “Anything above 35 is not premature,” she says. 
Premature Ovarian Failure: Premature Menopause. Approximately 1 in every 1000 women between the ages of 15-29 and 1 in every 100 women between the ages of 30-39 are affected by premature ovarian failure (POF) also called premature menopause. A woman can be affected by POF at any age or time in her life. 
The average age of menopause is 51 years old. But there is no way to predict when an individual woman will have menopause or begin having symptoms suggestive of menopause. The age at which a woman starts having menstrual periods is also not related to the age of menopause onset. 
This is where a woman's ovaries stop producing an egg every four weeks. She no longer has monthly periods and is unlikely to get pregnant. In the UK, 51 is the average age for a woman to reach the menopause, although some women experience the menopause in their 30s or 40s. If you experience the menopause before the age of 40, it's known as a premature menopause. 
The average age for menopause in the United States is 51, according to the National Institute on Aging. Generally, most women experience onset between the ages of 40 and 60. Early menopause usually refers to cases where onset occurs before the age of 40. 
1 The average age of U.S. women at the time of menopause is 51 years. 2  The most common age range at which women experience menopause is 48-55 years. 3  Premature menopause is defines as menopause occurring in a woman younger than 40 years. 4  About 1% of women experience premature menopause. 1 The most common age range at which women experience menopause is 48-55 years. 2  Premature menopause is defines as menopause occurring in a woman younger than 40 years. 3
Average age of menopause. When talking about the age when a majority of women have had their last menstrual period, it can be more helpful to use the average or mean age of menopause. Most women stop menstruating around the age of 50, and the average age in the developed world is 51.4 years (1). Most women stop menstruating around the age of 50, and the average age in the developed world is 51.4 years (1).
A. In the U.S., the average age of onset for natural menopause is 51. However, because of genetics, illness, or medical procedures, some women go through menopause before the age of 40. Menopause that occurs before this age, whether natural or induced, is known as premature menopause. 