Spondylosis literally means stiffening or fixation of the bony building blocks of the spine (vertebrae) as the result of a disease process. Spondylosis refers to degenerative changes in the spine such as bone spurs and degenerating intervertebral discs. Thoracic spondylosis frequently does not cause symptoms. Lumbosacral spondylosis is spondylosis which affects both the lumbar spine and the sacral spine (below the lumbar spine, in the midline between the buttocks). Multilevel spondylosis means that these changes affect multiple vertebrae in the spine.
In a classic case of lumbar spondylosis, the space between discs in the lumber spine becomes narrowed. As a result, the patient develops numbness, tingling, and pain which seem to radiate out from the area. These symptoms are the result of pressure on the nerves as they exit the spinal cord. For mild cases, medications can be used to manage the pain caused by lumbar spondylosis, and physical therapy may be used to increase flexibility and strengthen the spine. Patients are sometimes advised to adopt a diet and exercise regimen which promotes general physical health.
Cervical spondylosis is a general term for age-related wear and tear affecting the spinal disks in your neck. As the disks dehydrate and shrink, signs of osteoarthritis develop, including bony projections along the edges of bones (bone spurs). Cervical spondylosis is very common and worsens with age. 
Sections. By Michael, Perry M.D. Lumbar spondylosis describes the degeneration of the spine in the lower back, or lumbar region of the spine. This condition is generally a naturally occurring condition due to age and wear and tear of the spine over time
Lumbar Spondylosis Treatment. DEFINITION OF LUMBAR SPONDYLOSIS. Lumbar spondylosis is a medical situation in which the patient suffers from serious back pains occurred due to sliding of vertebrae in the lumbar region of the vertebral column. It may also happen due to any external injury or osteophytes (bone spurs). 
Many people with spondylosis on X-ray do not have any symptoms. In fact, lumbar spondylosis (spondylosis in the low back) is present in 27%-37% of people without symptoms. In some people, spondylosis causes back pain and neck pain due to nerve compression (pinched nerves). 
Lumbar spondylosis is a degenerative condition which affects the lower spine. In a patient with lumbar spondylosis, the spine is compromised by a narrowing of the space between the vertebrae, causing a variety of health problems ranging from back pain to neurological issues. For mild cases, medications can be used to manage the pain caused by lumbar spondylosis, and physical therapy may be used to increase flexibility and strengthen the spine. Patients are sometimes advised to adopt a diet and exercise regimen which promotes general physical health.
Again, spondylosis, whether it be lumbar spondylosis, cervical spondylosis, or thoracic spondylosis is not a clinical diagnosis. It is a term that can be translated to mean that a person has both spine degeneration and pain. What can be causing that pain differs from patient to patient. Most lumbar spondylosis symptoms are caused by arthritis, specifically osteoarthritis of the spine. As humans age, cartilage breaks down causing the bones of the spine to grind against one another. This grinding causes loss of mobility and friction.
Spondylosis is an umbrella term used to describe pain from degenerative conditions of the spine. Most spondylosis symptoms result from spinal osteoarthritis, but there may be other causes as well. Spinal osteoarthritis primarily affects the facet joints, which are paired joints on the back of each vertebral level. 
Spondylosis (from Ancient Greek spondylos, a vertebra, in plural vertebrae-the backbone) is a term referring to degenerative osteoarthritis of the joints between the center of the spinal vertebrae and/or neural foramina. If this condition occurs in the zygapophysial joints, it can be considered facet syndrome. 