Pupil distance can be measured in one of two ways. The first is monocular measurement, which will result in values somewhere between 26-36 mm. The second type is a binocular measurement, in which case the number will typically be somewhere between 54-72mm. The second number (63) is the near pupil distance. This number is only needed when reading glasses are required. It you still have questions or concerns about your P.D. measurement, please call 1-800-248-9427 and one of our highly trained operators will be able to help you.
PD or pupillary distance refers to the distance in millimeters between the center of one pupil to the center of the other. Having a correct PD on your glasses prescription insures that you are looking through the ideal spot in your lenses. PD is the distance in millimetres from the center of one pupil to the center of the other. This is really important because each lens has an optical center that needs to be placed directly over your pupil. Now this is really easy to do. All you need is a classroom ruler and a mirror.
Pupillary Distance, Pupil Distance or PD. 1  If you're ordering lenses for a new frame, you will need to provide your MONO PD (monocular pupil distance). 2  Have your doctor include this on your prescription or have a local eye care professional measure this for you. 
PD / Pupillary Distance. The PD/Pupillary Distance is the distance between your pupils, it ensures the correct centration of your Prescription lenses in front of your eyes. The most common method used to measure the PD involves a simple millimetre ruler.
Pupil distance can be measured in two ways. The first is called binocular, which is a pupil-to-pupil measurement, this type of measurement will be between 41-80 mm. The other type of measurement is called monocular, which is a per-eye measurement from the pupil to the middle of the face, this type of measurement will be between 20-40 mm.
Pupillary distance (PD) is the measurement (in millimeters) of the distance between the pupils of your eyes. Pupillary distance is an important measurement used to determine the proper lens shape and alignment of your prescription correction to your line of vision. Without an accurate PD measurement, correcting vision can be difficult since lenses need to be aligned over the center of your pupil for proper clarity. The other type of measurement is called monocular, which is a per-eye measurement from the pupil to the middle of the face, this type of measurement will be between 20-40 mm.
Pupillary Distance (PD) or interpupillary distance (IPD) is the distance (the industry standard is to measure in millimeters) between the centers of the pupils in each eye. This measurement is used when preparing to make prescription eyeglasses. 
Your PD (pupillary distance) is the distance between the centre of your pupils, measured in millimetres. Your Optician will measure this during your sight test although it is unlikely to be written on your prescription. However, you can ask your optician for your pupil distance following your test. 
To measure your Pupillary Distance (PD): 1  Place a millimeter ruler on the bridge of your nose. 2  Have a friend face you about arms length away. 3  Have your friend measure the distance between the center of your pupils (the black dots in the middle of your eyes). 4  Or you can do it yourself simply by looking in the mirror. 
PD stands for pupil distance, this is the measurement between your eyes from pupil to pupil. Pupil distance can be expressed in two ways: Binocular PD is the total distance between your pupils. Monocular PD is the distance from the bridge of your nose to your pupil on each side. A monocular PD measurement will be two numbers. FramesDirect.com can use either of these measurements to custom-make your prescription lenses. 