The stomach produces and secretes several important substances to control the digestion of food. Each of these substances is produced by exocrine or endocrine cells found in the mucosa. 1  The main exocrine product of the stomach is gastric juice – a mixture of mucus, hydrochloric acid, and digestive enzymes.
The hormones that control digestion are produced and secreted by various organs along the tract. These hormones cause the various chemicals that aid in digestion to be released or prevented from being released. For instance, gastrin, which is secreted by the stomach, causes gastric juice to be released into the stomach.
Food enters the mouth and passes to the anus through the hollow organs of the GI tract. The liver, pancreas, and gallbladder are the solid organs of the digestive system. The digestive system helps the body digest food. Bacteria in the GI tract, also called gut flora or microbiome, help with digestion.
The cells in the lining of the stomach and small intestine produce and release hormones that control the functions of the digestive system. These hormones stimulate production of digestive juices and regulate appetite.
Last Updated: Saturday, July 16, 2011. In general, the digestive system is controlled by both nerves and hormones. The nerves that control digestion are in the submucosa layer of the tissue and in between the muscle layers of the walls of the organ.
The second of the two systems that control digestive function is the endocrine system, which regulates function by secreting hormones. Recall that hormones are chemical messengers secreted into blood that modify the physiology of target cells.
Digestion Control. 1  Gastrin causes the stomach to produce an acid for dissolving and digesting some foods. 2  Secretin causes the pancreas to send out a digestive juice that is rich in bicarbonate. 3  CCK causes the pancreas to grow and to produce the enzymes of pancreatic juice, and it causes the gallbladder to empty.
The pancreas is a glandular organ in the upper abdomen, but really it serves as two glands in one: a digestive exocrine gland and a hormone-producing endocrine gland. Functioning as an exocrine gland, the pancreas excretes enzymes to break down the proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids in food.