1 Having an electrician install the lights in an open ceiling can run $50-$200 or more per light (and averages about $125-$150) depending on local rates and the relative ease of installation. Also called can lights, high hats or pot lights, recessed lights are fixtures designed to be installed flush with the ceiling, so the actual light fixture is tucked away, out of view.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Recessed Lighting! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Recessed Light Installation project. For a basic 1 light project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Recessed Lighting ranges between $185.86 - $336.37 per light. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
1 Installation by an electrician runs about $100-$200 per light, but can be more if access is limited (no attic) or if there are other circumstances that make installation difficult. Also called can lights, high hats or pot lights, recessed lights are fixtures designed to be installed flush with the ceiling, so the actual light fixture is tucked away, out of view.
The national average cost to install recessed lighting professionally into existing drywall is about $162 per light. This may vary quite a bit, however, depending on where you live as electrical work gets pricier based on your location. In larger cities, that $162 may rise to anywhere from $175 to $250. Trims are fitted around the hole in the ceiling, and will cost around $10 to $30 for each light. Whether your ceiling can be accessed from above also plays into the total cost. Remodel cans, which allow installation without tearing down the ceiling even if there is no above access, are more expensive at $20+.
1 An Oregon do-it-yourselfer installed eight recessed lights in a kitchen with an open ceiling for $180. 2  Having an electrician install the lights in an open ceiling can run $50-$200 or more per light (and averages about $125-$150) depending on local rates and the relative ease of installation. Also called can lights, high hats or pot lights, recessed lights are fixtures designed to be installed flush with the ceiling, so the actual light fixture is tucked away, out of view.
Cost of the Lights. Low-end recessed lights cost between $20 and $60 each. Higher-end, low-voltage recessed lighting can cost $75 to $150 or more per light. Each light requires a housing that goes into the ceiling and a trim that covers gaps between the housing and the drywall. Outdoors, they can be installed under eaves and porch ceilings. The cost of having recessed lights installed in your home will usually range from $150 to $200 per light. The cost of the lights themselves and the work required for an electrician to wire the ceiling will most affect the price.
1 Just the lights start about $25-$75 each, but can be $100-$150 or more apiece for higher-end models. 2  Installation by an electrician runs about $100-$200 per light, but can be more if access is limited (no attic) or if there are other circumstances that make installation difficult. Also called can lights, high hats or pot lights, recessed lights are fixtures designed to be installed flush with the ceiling, so the actual light fixture is tucked away, out of view.
The cost to install recessed lighting generally ranges between $66 and $133 for each light. If the ceiling is already open, as in a home under construction or a room that is already being renovated, the cost will be on the low side of the range. Outdoors, they can be installed under eaves and porch ceilings. The cost of having recessed lights installed in your home will usually range from $150 to $200 per light. The cost of the lights themselves and the work required for an electrician to wire the ceiling will most affect the price.