Mimesis shows, rather than tells, by means of directly represented action that is enacted. Diegesis, however, is the telling of the story by a narrator; the author narrates action indirectly and describes what is in the characters' minds and emotions.n Book III of his Republic (c. 373 BCE), Plato examines the style of poetry (the term includes comedy, tragedy, epic and lyric poetry): All types narrate events, he argues, but by differing means. He distinguishes between narration or report (diegesis) and imitation or representation (mimesis).
Diegesis (Greek διήγησις narration) and mimesis (Greek μίμησις imitation) have been contrasted since Plato 's and Aristotle 's times. Mimesis shows rather than tells, by means of action that is enacted. Diegesis is the telling of the story by a narrator.
mimesis. n. 1. (Art Terms) art literature the imitative representation of nature or human behaviour. 2. (Pathology). a. any disease that shows symptoms of another disease.. mimesis-any disease that shows symptoms characteristic of another disease. disease-an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning. hysterical neurosis, hysteria-neurotic disorder characterized by violent emotional outbreaks and disturbances of sensory and motor functions.
One of the best-known modern studies of mimesis, understood as a form of realism in literature, is Erich Auerbach 's Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in Western Literature, which opens with a famous comparison between the way the world is represented in Homer 's Odyssey and the way it appears in the Bible.n Book III of his Republic (c. 373 BCE), Plato examines the style of poetry (the term includes comedy, tragedy, epic and lyric poetry): All types narrate events, he argues, but by differing means. He distinguishes between narration or report (diegesis) and imitation or representation (mimesis).
Noun. 1. mimesis-the imitative representation of nature and human behavior in art and literature. imitation-the doctrine that representations of nature or human behavior should be accurate imitations.. mimesis-any disease that shows symptoms characteristic of another disease. disease-an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning. hysterical neurosis, hysteria-neurotic disorder characterized by violent emotional outbreaks and disturbances of sensory and motor functions.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mimesis (noun). the imitative representation of nature and human behavior in art and literature. mimesis (noun). any disease that shows symptoms characteristic of another disease. mimesis (noun).iktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mimesis (Noun). The representation of aspects of the real world, especially human actions, in literature and art. mimesis (Noun). mimicry. mimesis (Noun). The appearance of symptoms of a disease not actually present. mimesis (Noun). The rhetorical pedagogy of imitation.
Lesson Summary. In literature, mimesis is the process by which the work reflects and reinterprets the world around it. Derived from a Greek verb meaning 'to imitate,' the philosopher Aristotle adapted the term to fit his idea that art mimics whom and what we observe in the real world.ou've probably heard the expression 'art imitates life' at some point. In fact, mimesis is the process by which art
Perhaps there is none of his higher functions in which his mimetic faculty does not play a decisive role. --- Walter Benjamin, On the Mimetic Faculty 1933. The term mimesis is derived from the Greek mimesis, meaning to imitate [1]. The OED defines mimesis as a figure of speech, whereby the words or actions of another are imitated and the deliberate imitation of the behavior of one group of people by another as a factor in social change [2]. 
In art history, mimesis, realism and naturalism are used, often interchangeably, as terms for the accurate, even illusionistic, representation of the visual appearance of things.n Book III of his Republic (c. 373 BCE), Plato examines the style of poetry (the term includes comedy, tragedy, epic and lyric poetry): All types narrate events, he argues, but by differing means. He distinguishes between narration or report (diegesis) and imitation or representation (mimesis).
2. mimesis-any disease that shows symptoms characteristic of another disease. disease-an impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning. hysterical neurosis, hysteria-neurotic disorder characterized by violent emotional outbreaks and disturbances of sensory and motor functions.