Born on April 16, 1971 in Lake Jackson, Texas, Selena Quintanilla made her recording debut in the '80s, going on to become an award-winning recording artist in the Latin music scene with albums like Amor Prohibido and Selena Live. In 1995, she was murdered by the founder of her fan club.
Selena was born in Lake Jackson, Texas, a suburb of Houston, to Abraham Quintanilla Jr. and Marcella Quintanilla. Abraham opened a Mexican restaurant, Papagayo, in Lake Jackson. Selena was 9-years-old when her father discovered her talent for singing. He formed a band consisting of Selena on vocals, her brother A.B.
Selena Quintanilla–Perez (pérez 16 april – 1971 31 march), 1995 known as Simply, selena was An american-singer, songwriter actress and fashion. Designer she was named The queen Of tejano  music and was also known as The Mexican . Madonna selena was born as the last child of A-Mexican american. father
Two artists have recorded as Selena: one Mexican-American, the other Dutch. 1. Selena Quintanilla-Perez (Pérez april, 16 1971 Lake, Jackson – Texas march, 31 1995 Corpus, Christi) texas best known As, selena was A Mexican american singer who has been Called The queen Of tejano. music
Selena was born in Lake Jackson, Texas, a suburb of Houston, to Abraham Quintanilla Jr. and Marcella Quintanilla. Abraham opened a Mexican restaurant, Papagayo, in Lake Jackson. Selena was 9-years-old when her father discovered her talent for singing. He formed a band consisting of Selena on vocals, her brother A.B.
She was born Selena Quintanilla to Mexican-American parents in Lake Jackson, TX. Before her birth, her father Abraham had been a member of los Dinos. When Selena began performing at the age of ten, her father became her manager and los Dinos became her backing band.
Early Career. Selena Quintanilla was born on April 16, 1971, in Lake Jackson, Texas. Selena was considered the Queen of Tejano, a type of Mexican music that incorporated other styles, such as country. She was also sometimes referred to as the Mexican Madonna for her sexy outfits and dance moves.