Try making a mixture of cornstarch and water called oobleck. It makes a great science project or is just fun to play with. Oobleck is a non-Newtonian fluid; it has properties of both liquids and solids. You can slowly dip your hand into it like a liquid, but if you squeeze the oobleck or punch it, it will feel solid. Mix ingredients. 1  Start with the water in a bowl (or wading pool!) and add the cornstarch a bit at a time. 2  Keep stirring until it has a gooey consistency. 3  You may want to use your hands. 4  When the oobleck is just right, slowly add food coloring, if you want.
The Oobleck mixture isn't your typical liquid—or solid. The cornstarch-and-water mixture creates a fluid that acts more like quicksand than water: applying force (squeezing or tapping it) causes it to become thicker. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The mixture is Non-Newtonian liquid which means that it is a liquid unless a force is applied to it and then it has the properties of a solid. Sky 1 showed the properties of this well on Brainiac Science Abuse, where presenter; John Tickle demonstrated walking on a pool of custard. it is both   that mixture is both a solid and liquid   water on the other hand can be all the matters   snow solid   rain liquid   evaporation gas. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
1 Stir. 2  Sometimes it is easier (and more fun!) to mix the cornstarch and water with your bare hands. 3  Continue adding cornstarch and water in small amounts until you get a mixture that has the consistency of honey. In the case of the cornstarch quicksand, it’s a solid dispersed in a liquid. When you punch the cornstarch quicksand, you force the long starch molecules closer together. The impact of this force traps the water between the starch chains to form a semi-rigid structure.
If it's too wet, add more cornstarch. Put newspaper down on your counter or table top. Put the cornstarch into the bowl. Add a drop or two of food coloring. (Use whatever colors you like.) Add water slowly, mixing the cornstarch and water with your fingers until all the powder is wet. Play around with your Ooze! 1  Pick up a handful and squeeze it. 2  Stop squeezing and it will drip through your fingers. (Use whatever colors you like.) Add water slowly, mixing the cornstarch and water with your fingers until all the powder is wet. Keep adding water until the Ooze feels like a liquid when you're mixing it slowly.
Lead her to the realization that Oobleck is so interesting because it is both a solid and a liquid! Part Two1. Give your child a container of cornstarch, some popsicle sticks, food coloring, tablespoons/scoops, and water. Let her feel the cornstarch and the water. 
Add water slowly to the mixture, with stirring, until all of the powder is wet. Continue to add water until the cornstarch acts like a liquid when you stir it slowly. When you tap on the liquid with your finger, it shouldn't splash, but rather will become hard. If your mixture is too liquid, add more cornstarch. 
Mix cornstarch and water in this classic experiment to form a gooey liquid and solid material that behaves like quicksand. Some people refer to this as the Oobleck recipe, others call it a Non-Newtonian fluid. 
The Oobleck mixture isn't your typical liquid—or solid. The cornstarch-and-water mixture creates a fluid that acts more like quicksand than water: applying force (squeezing or tapping it) causes it to become thicker. 