than in other digits. This is thought to be due to the. central pull of the conjoined FDP of the ulna three digits. on the ring finger, as a result of the quadriga effect and. the fact that the ring finger has the least independent. motion of all fingers (Tuttle et al., 2006). The quadriga syndrome is a condition in which the flexor. tendon excursion is reduced in an unaffected finger. when the excursion of the flexor digitorum profundus. (FDP) tendon of the adjacent finger is altered by stiff-. ness, injury, or adhesion (Verdan, 1960).
The Quadriga syndrome can occur as a consequence of trauma to any of the three ulnar fingers, if this causes joint stiffness or tendon adhesions resulting in restricted flexion. Quadriga was first described by Bunnell (1924) , who observed “As the flexor tendons arise from practically a common muscle belly, the function of one tendon limits the excursion of the rest of the tendons”.
The effect of this quadriga phenomenon is important in several clinical situations, including testing for strength, assessing movement of the tendons, and when deciding which exercises to teach the patient after a tendon injury. The quadriga syndrome is a condition in which the flexor. tendon excursion is reduced in an unaffected finger. when the excursion of the flexor digitorum profundus. (FDP) tendon of the adjacent finger is altered by stiff-. ness, injury, or adhesion (Verdan, 1960).
A quadriga (Latin quadri- , four, and iugum, yoke) is a car or chariot drawn by four horses abreast (the Roman Empire 's equivalent of Ancient Greek tethrippon). It was raced in the Ancient Olympic Games and other contests. It is represented in profile as the chariot of gods and heroes on Greek vases and in bas-relief. 1 The Berlin Quadriga was designed by Johann Gottfried Schadow in 1793 as the Quadriga of Victory, perhaps as a symbol of peace (represented by the olive wreath carried by Victory).
This study evaluated the flexor digitorum profundus quadriga effect by mimicking stiffness of one finger and observing its effect on the strengths of the other three fingers of the same hand. Quadriga was first described by Bunnell (1924) , who observed “As the flexor tendons arise from practically a common muscle belly, the function of one tendon limits the excursion of the rest of the tendons”.
It is also not known whether the quadriga effect varies depending upon which finger is stiff, or whether certain fingers are more susceptible than others to weakness due to this phenomenon. Although the effect is expected to be different for the index finger, this has not been investigated. Quadriga was first described by Bunnell (1924) , who observed “As the flexor tendons arise from practically a common muscle belly, the function of one tendon limits the excursion of the rest of the tendons”.
Abstract. This study evaluated the flexor digitorum profundus quadriga effect by mimicking stiffness of one finger and observing its effect on the strengths of the other three fingers of the same hand. Thermoplastic wedges were used to simulate mild, moderate and severe stiffness of each finger and the individual strengths of each finger during power grip were measured using a digit-grip ™ dynamometer in ten healthy adult volunteers. Middle, ring, and little fingers strength diminished significantly (P.
In classical mythology, the quadriga is the chariot of the gods; Apollo was depicted driving his quadriga across the heavens, delivering daylight and dispersing the night. The word quadriga may refer to the chariot alone, the four horses without it, or the combination. 1 The Berlin Quadriga was designed by Johann Gottfried Schadow in 1793 as the Quadriga of Victory, perhaps as a symbol of peace (represented by the olive wreath carried by Victory).
In addition, Verdan observed that patients with quadriga also complained of a lack of prehensile power. Quadriga occurs because the ulnar three fingers are flexed by a single ulnar belly of the FDP muscle, whose origin is on the flexor aspect of the ulna and the interosseous membrane. Quadriga was first described by Bunnell (1924) , who observed “As the flexor tendons arise from practically a common muscle belly, the function of one tendon limits the excursion of the rest of the tendons”.