African Food: Zulu Cuisine. The Zulu nation has a long and fascinating history. They have the largest representation in South Africa, and their culture has remained strong through the many generations. Zulu is part of the Bantu languages, along with Xhosa and a few lesser known tongues. Amazi is another important part of the Zulu cuisine. This is a curdled milk drink that is reserved only for the family members of the person making it. It is allowed to curdle in a gourd and the whey proteins are removed. The gourd is never cleaned, but is constantly refilled.
Traditional Food. Zulu culinary are mainly vegetarian dishes that predominantly consists of vegetables and grain. Starch is a dietary staple and they take form in pap (porridge) and beer. Maize, pumpkins and potatoes are common ingredients used to in traditional dishes.
Desserts Served at Zulu Meals. To finish a meal, a traditional maize-based sweet custard dessert is often served. It can be topped with a sauce made from chocolate, prunes and cream. Other desserts found at Zulu meals include melk terts, dried fruit leathers, fried dough koeksisters and spice cookies. Meat, both wild and domesticated, is a common part of the Zulu cuisine. Meats are often roasted whole on a spit or added to vegetable-based broths or porridge. The roasted meat is served in large, rectangular wooden pans called ugqoko. Livestock animals eaten include goats, chickens, cows, sheep and pig
Did you. Zulus traditionally sprinkle dried pelargonium leaves on dishes as an indigenous spice. The foundations of Zulu cuisine are sorghum and maize starches, which are generally eaten as polenta-like porridges or drunk in the form of beer. Historically the Zulus were a rich and powerful nation with large cattle herds. Zulu cooking reflects this history with high levels of beef and dairy in the traditional diet. Milk is consumed in a soured form known as amasi while meat is stewed or grilled over an open fire.
A Zulu wedding, like most African weddings, is vibrant with colors, music, dancing, and then some. There are other traditions when it comes to South African weddings but Zulu weddings are among the most popular because of the vast population of members of Zululand. 
Zulu cuisine offers marvellous menus for travelling taste buds. From the comfort of isibhede and phutu porridge to the intoxication of utywala beer and the fiery perfection of chakalaka relish, Zulu dishes are seasoned with history, infused with culture and full of fine flavours. Historically the Zulus were a rich and powerful nation with large cattle herds. Zulu cooking reflects this history with high levels of beef and dairy in the traditional diet. Milk is consumed in a soured form known as amasi while meat is stewed or grilled over an open fire.
Food. The Zulu culinary repertoire encompasses some forty dishes, mostly vegetarian (although the Zulus love meat). Maize, tubers and pumpkin are mostly eaten in different forms. Tomatoes, cabbage and onions are popular when available. Eating is hygienic, each member using his own plate and utensils. Brewing of beer is the duty of the women. Coarse sorghum and maize is steeped in water for a day. On the second day, it is boiled and dry sorghum added and the mash allowed to cool. On the third day the brew is filtered through a sieve and served and consumed on the same day.
Zulu traditions. Zulu tradition is held in high esteem by the most populous ethnic group in South Africa. Zulu beliefs are based on the presence of ancestral spirits, which often appear in dreams, and a supreme being who is seldom involved in the affairs of mortals.