As of the 2011 census the population was 1,425, an increase of 7.5% from the 2006 census. Pangnirtung is situated on a coastal plain at the coast of Pangnirtung Fjord, a fjord which eventually merges with Cumberland Sound. The area of the town is 7.77 km 2 (3.00 sq mi). As of January 2014, the mayor is Mosesee Qappik. Residents say the real name is Panniqtuuq, which means the place of many bull caribou. Early in 2005 residents voted against officially changing the name of the village to the native one, as Pangnirtung has achieved an international reputation.
This is an idea I've had for a while... finally i have found the time to give you a tour of the tiny Nunavut hamlet of Pangnirtung. For images of Pangnirtung and the surronding area please feel free to visit my flickr stream http://www.flickr.com/photos/31076937... or my web site http://www.michaelhdavies.com/.
Pangnirtung Airport (IATA: YXP, ICAO: CYXP) is located at Pangnirtung, Nunavut, Canada, and is operated by the Government of Nunavut. Interior of the terminal, showing the tapestry woven for the opening of the airport terminal, April 2006.
Pangnirtung, Nunavut is located on the southeastern shore of Pangnirtung Fjord on the south shore of Baffin Island's Cumberland Sound. The Auyuittuq Lodge is the hotel in Pangnirtung (more...). The view from the lounge at the Auyuittuq Lodge Restaurant at the Auyuittuq Lodge. The Inns North Auyuittuq Lodge is. Click here to learn more about the Auyuittuq Lodge and the community of Pangnirtung, Nunavut.
Welcome to pangnirtung.ca, the Hamlet of Pangnirtung's official municipal website. We are pleased to showcase our beautiful community to the world. Pangnirtung is located on Baffin Island, Nunavut, Canada. 
Arts & Culture. Pangnirtung is renowned for its traditional Inuit arts and crafts, particularly the excellent quality of its woven tapestries and its lithographic prints. It is also famous for a unique style of crocheted winter hat called the 'Pang Hat' that is very popular all across Nunavut. Indigenous people have inhabited the land near Pangnirtung for 4,000 years. Inuit contact with Europeans and Americans greatly increased in the 19th century. A Scottish whaling station was established on nearby Kekerten Island in 1840 and the entire Cumberland Sound area was soon visited by whaling vessels.
There is some confusion about the village name. Residents say the real name is Panniqtuuq, which means the place of many bull caribou. Early in 2005 residents voted against officially changing the name of the village to the native one, as Pangnirtung has achieved an international reputation.
In 1921, the Hudson's Bay Company established a trading post in Pangnirtung. Two years later, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police erected a permanent office. The first government-appointed teacher arrived in 1956. The first administrative office was established in 1962. Residents say the real name is Panniqtuuq, which means the place of many bull caribou. Early in 2005 residents voted against officially changing the name of the village to the native one, as Pangnirtung has achieved an international reputation.
Kekerten Territorial Park. Located on Kekerten Island, about 50 kilometres (31 miles) south of Pangnirtung, this historical park area was established on grounds that were first used as a whaling station when Scottish whaler William Penny charted the island in 1840. Indigenous people have inhabited the land near Pangnirtung for 4,000 years. Inuit contact with Europeans and Americans greatly increased in the 19th century. A Scottish whaling station was established on nearby Kekerten Island in 1840 and the entire Cumberland Sound area was soon visited by whaling vessels.