This test is used to find out how well your liver is working, and it's often given as part of a panel of tests that measure liver function. A small amount of bilirubin in your blood is normal, but a high level may be a sign of liver disease. The liver produces bile to help you digest food, and bile contains bilirubin. Most bilirubin comes from the body's normal process of breaking down old red blood cells. A healthy liver can normally get rid of bilirubin. But when you have liver problems, it can build up in your body to unhealthy levels.
1 Investigate jaundice — elevated levels of bilirubin can cause yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice). 2  A common use of the test is to measure bilirubin levels in newborns. 3  Determine whether there might be blockage in your liver's bile ducts. Bilirubin testing may be done to: 1 
The liver processes bilirubin so it can be excreted in stool. Bilirubin flows through the liver's bile ducts, dissolved in bile. Bilirubin blood levels may be elevated in people with impaired bile flow. This can occur in severe liver disease, gallbladder disease, or other bile system conditions. Very high bilirubin levels cause jaundice, in which the skin and whites of the eyes turn yellow. Bilirubin can be a useful liver function test in people with a known bile flow problem. 
Bilirubin testing is usually done as part of a group of tests to check the health of your liver. Bilirubin testing may be done to: 1  Investigate jaundice — elevated levels of bilirubin can cause yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice). 2  A common use of the test is to measure bilirubin levels in newborns. 3  Determine whether there might be blockage in your liver's bile ducts
Total bilirubin and direct bilirubin levels are measured directly in the blood, whereas indirect bilirubin levels are derived from the total and direct bilirubin measurements. When bilirubin levels are high, the skin and whites of the eyes may appear yellow (jaundice). Jaundice may be caused by liver disease (hepatitis), blood disorders (hemolytic anemia), or blockage of the tubes (bile ducts) that allow bile to pass from the liver to the small intestine. Why It Is Done. The bilirubin test is used to: 1  Check liver function and watch for signs of liver disease, such as hepatitis or cirrhosis, or the effects of medicines that can damage the liver. 2  Find out if something is blocking the bile ducts. 3  This may occur if gallstones, tumors of the pancreas, or other conditions are present
1 High levels of bilirubin can cause jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes, darker urine, and lighter-colored bowel movements). 2  Elevated bilirubin levels can be caused by reasons other than liver disease. 3  Total bilirubin is made up of 2 components: direct bilirubin and indirect bilirubin. 1 When bilirubin levels remain high for prolonged periods, it usually means there is severe liver disease and possibly cirrhosis. 2  High levels of bilirubin can cause jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes, darker urine, and lighter-colored bowel movements).
Bilirubin is a brownish yellow substance found in bile. It is produced when the liver breaks down old red blood cells. Bilirubin is then removed from the body through the stool (feces) and gives stool its normal color. Why It Is Done. The bilirubin test is used to: 1  Check liver function and watch for signs of liver disease, such as hepatitis or cirrhosis, or the effects of medicines that can damage the liver. 2  Find out if something is blocking the bile ducts. 3  This may occur if gallstones, tumors of the pancreas, or other conditions are present
A bilirubin test is used to detect an increased level in the blood. It may be used to help determine the cause of jaundice and/or help diagnose conditions such as liver disease, hemolytic anemia, and blockage of the bile ducts. Bilirubin is an orange-yellow pigment, a waste product primarily produced by the normal breakdown of heme. If conjugated (direct) bilirubin is elevated more than unconjugated (indirect) bilirubin, there typically is a problem associated with decreased elimination of bilirubin by the liver cells. Some conditions that may cause this include: 1  Viral hepatitis. 2  Drug reactions.