Start off in California’s most romantic coastal city, San Francisco. After having fun exploring the Bay Area, head east to Yosemite National Park, passing through Tri Valley, Oakdale, Groveland, Merced, Hetch Hetchy, and Sonora. Merced to Mariposa: 37 miles. Drive CA 140 east to the park’s gateway town of Mariposa. Cool your heels for the day with stops at the Mariposa Museum and History Center or a ride with Yosemite Ziplines and Adventure Ranch. Stay in a quaint B&B.
26 miles beyond Oakdale, turn right at Yosemite Junction and continue on CA-120 East through Groveland. 1/2 mile before the entrance to Yosemite (22 miles beyond Groveland), take a left on Evergreen Road and continue for 7 miles. After 10 miles, turn left onto CA-49 North/Golden Chain Highway. Follow for 150 feet, then turn right onto Greeley Hill Road/Main Street. Take Greeley Hill Road/J20/Smith Station to CA-120 East and turn right. Follow CA-120 East to Evergreen Road, 1/2 mile before the entrance to Yosemite.
Driving distance from San Jose, CA to Yosemite National Park. The total driving distance from San Jose, CA to Yosemite National Park is 184 miles or 296 kilometers. Your trip begins in San Jose, California. It ends in Yosemite National Park, California. You can also calculate the cost of driving from San Jose, CA to Yosemite National Park based on current local fuel prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. If you're meeting a friend, you might be interested in finding the city that is halfway between San Jose, CA and Yosemite National Park.
Yosemite to Monterey: 200 miles (300 km.) 4 - 5 hours drive. You can backtrack to the San Francisco Bay area and turn south through San Jose and Santa Cruz, in the heart of the Silicon Valley, a technological center of the USA, then drive down the coast to Monterey. 
The official Yosemite website says they don't recommend using GPS units for directions in and around the park-and neither do we. Yosemite is located in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, about 200 miles east of San Francisco, about 300 miles northwest of Los Angeles and a little more than 400 miles northwest of Las Vegas. When I tried entering Yosemite at popular map websites and smartphone apps in late 2015, results varied. Routes to Yosemite from the West. Most Scenic-CA Hwy 140: This route is by far the most scenic drive into Yosemite National Park and the best way to go if you’re visiting for the first time.
Your starting point United States, San Jose is located at (37.3239, -121.914). Your ending point United States, Yosemite National Park is located at (37.6912, -119.591). Total distance from San Jose to Yosemite National Park is 208.92 kms. 208.92 kms equals to 129.82 miles and 112.74 nautical miles. Latest Searched Country Distances: Oman and India | Kuwait and Libyan Arab Jamahiriya | Australia and Japan | Belgium and France | Czech Republic and Luxembourg |. If you want to travel by car you can see the driving route and driving distance between San Jose and Yosemite National Park by car on the map below. Please waiting while calculating driving distance and time. if the map doesn't load please click here. Distance information is flight distance as a line.
Yosemite is a three to four-hour drive from San Francisco and about six hours from Los Angeles. You can get started using any GPS or mapping software you like. It's what you do when you get closer to the park that's important. Routes to Yosemite from the West. Most Scenic-CA Hwy 140: This route is by far the most scenic drive into Yosemite National Park and the best way to go if you’re visiting for the first time.
Mariposa to Yosemite’s Arch Rock Entrance: 44 miles. Go east on CA 140 to El Portal and into Yosemite National Park. Explore Yosemite Valley, Glacier Point Road, and the Winona Area. Stay in a lodge or campground inside the park. Merced to Mariposa: 37 miles. Drive CA 140 east to the park’s gateway town of Mariposa. Cool your heels for the day with stops at the Mariposa Museum and History Center or a ride with Yosemite Ziplines and Adventure Ranch. Stay in a quaint B&B.
Yosemite is 188 miles from San Francisco, 184 miles from San Jose, 174 miles from Sacramento, 212 miles from Reno, NV and 310 miles from Los Angeles. The nearest airport is in Fresno (FAT). For all the options to get there, from Amtrak to automobiles, see the guide to Getting to Yosemite. 