These include the cost of the property that the house will be moved to, paying contractors to disconnect wiring and plumbing, the construction of a new foundation for the home once it gets to the new location, and any type of permits necessary. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
Most house moving companies want to physically inspect a house and the desired placement location before estimating the cost for them to move it. The cost for moving any size house can range between $12 and $16 per square foot, so obviously a smaller house with not a long distance to travel will be cheaper to move. The roads traveled during the move can add to the cost of the move. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
If your house is quite large, it may be too large to move as a single unit. In these cases, assuming your house is structurally sound enough to handle it, you'll have to break your house up into smaller pieces to move. Moving multiple pieces will obviously increase the overall cost of moving the house as well. If the house is more than one story, you might even need to have utility companies raise power lines. Before you move, you'll have to plan your exact route with all the towns and municipalities you'll be moving through. Getting the permits and having the changes made to allow your house access certainly add to the cost.
The cost of moving a house starts at about $12 to $16 per square foot but can quickly rise if the home is heavier, bigger or has farther to go [sources: McLinden, Burstein ]. One house builder estimates that moving a large home more than just a few miles can run about $150,000 to $200,000 [source: Fetters ]. In addition to the costs of the actual moving, these expenses should also be considered: 1  Cost of the new home, if you're not moving one that you already own. 2  Buying the land where the home will be placed. 3  Building a new foundation for the home. 4  Permitting and inspection costs.
Based on my experience in the field, packing costs can be similar to the moving cost itself. A 4 bedroom house can take more than 12h to move from one town to another. In this case your average moving costs will be around $1800 to $2500 without including any packing. For an accurate moving estimate calculation use our fast & easy free moving calculator. For example if you’re moving from Chicago to Boston, MA and you live in a 4 bedroom house, your average moving cost with a full service moving company can go over $10000. But if you are moving locally within 100 miles from your old place, this cost will be based on hourly rate and will vary from company to company.
The Decision. The easiest way to move a home, and to determine the cost to move a house, is to contact a professional moving specialist. They will come in with a crew, take a look at the house’s structure and the proposed moving spot, and will provide all of the necessary equipment for the job. It’s a big undertaking and will place a lot of strain on the floor joists and frame of the house. And if anything goes wrong in the move structurally, then the costs will be higher to make sure that the home makes the journey in one piece.
A total cost of between $8,000 and $40,000 just to actually move the house from the original site to the new site can be considered to be on the cheaper end of the spectrum with costs for moving bigger houses reaching up to hundreds of thousands. Before making the decision to move a house, people should contact a professional house moving company to get an estimate on how much it will cost to move the house. The entire process can become pretty costly when all other expenses are factored in, but it could still be less than purchasing a new one.
The cost of moving the house will depend mainly on the time it takes, which depends in turn on the route to be travelled, the size of the house and the degree of difficulty. It can range from a few thousand dollars to move a single-piece house, with the price increasing for the number of pieces, location and difficulty. Insurance. When the house is in transit from the old site to the new location, you will need to organise insurance for the move. This will provide cover for any damage during the move, for example, if the house falls off the truck.
Average Cost. Based on 2010 data, the average cost of moving a new home was $20,000 to $40,000. The size of the house, the distance to the new location and the amount of work required to move the building all play a role in the total cost. Purestock/Purestock/Getty Images. Save. When new developments or roads encroach on your home and you have to move, you can take your house with you. The cost of moving the house is often consistent with the cost of building a new home and, in some cases, may be substantially lower. (Goodluz/iStock/Getty Images).