Not surprising, as reishi has been used in China for over 2,000 years! This mushroom has a long history of use as an herbal medicine. Modern research is now confirming its healing power in the body. 1 Reishi is known as ling zhi (mushroom of immortality) in China and mannentake (10,000 year mushroom) in Japan. 2  It is sometimes also referred to as the herb of spiritual potency.. 3  The Japanese government officially lists reishi mushrooms as a cancer treatment.
Reishi mushroom has been used to help enhance the immune system, reduce stress, improve sleep, and lessen fatigue. People also take reishi mushroom for health conditions such as: 1  High blood pressure. 2  High cholesterol. 3  Cardiovascular disease. 4  Liver or kidney disease. 5  Respiratory diseases (such as asthma). 6  Viral infections (such as the flu). 7  HIV /AIDS. 8  Cancer and support during chemotherapy. 9  Pain during and after a shingles outbreak.
The Reishi Mushroom also known as (Ling Zhi, Red Reishi or Ganoderma Lucidum) is often referred to as the mushroom of immortality. Reishi Mushroom is revered in Asia where it has been used in TCM for over 2000 years. Because of Reishi Mushrooms presumed health benefits and apparent absence of side-effects, it has attained a reputation as the ultimate longevity herb. Part of the Red Reishi Mushroom known as the dried mycelium, has been found to be highly effective in dealing environmental stress, this is mainly true because Reishi is an adaptogen. TCM shows that Reishi Mushrooms are the most potent adaptogen available.
Reishi Mushroom Benefits. Reishi mushroom (Ganoderma Lucidum) is a medicinal mushroom that can be helpful in combating many different health conditions. A well known benefit of consuming Reishi is it’s beneficial effect on the immune system. It promotes a strong immunity to disease. Cancer patients often take an extract of Reishi mushroom while undergoing chemotherapy. It reduced the side effects of the treatment, such as hair loss and fatigue. Reishi is also taken as a preventive and a treatment for cancerous tumors.
Reishi mushroom is an adaptogen that brings a person back into balance: An “adaptogen” will help a person adapt to a large range of environmental, biological, psychological and physical stresses, which this herb has certainly been proven to do. Reishi contains two major groups of consituents: In China, reishi mushroom is considered one of the best herbs to increase longevity. This adaptogenic mushroom has been shown to: 1  calm the nervous system. 2  regulate blood pressure, cholesterol and other blood lipids.
Use of powdered reishi mushroom has been associated with toxic effects on the liver. Reishi mushroom can also cause other side effects including dryness of the mouth, throat, and nasal area along with itchiness, stomach upset, nosebleed, and bloody stools. Drinking reishi wine can cause a rash. 1 Early research suggests that taking reishi mushroom extract daily for 12 weeks does not lower blood pressure in people with slightly high blood pressure. 2  However, other research suggests that taking reishi mushroom lowers blood pressure in people with more severe high blood pressure. 3  Lung cancer.
Red Reishi (Ganoderma lucidum), commonly known as Ling Zhi in Chinese, is a herbal mushroom known to have miraculous health benefits. 
1 Hepatitis B. Early research suggests that taking a specific reishi mushroom product (Ganopoly) for 12 weeks reduces how much of the hepatitis B virus is circulating in the body. 2  This product also seems to improve liver function in people with this condition. 1 Early research suggests that taking reishi mushroom extract daily for 12 weeks does not lower blood pressure in people with slightly high blood pressure. 2  However, other research suggests that taking reishi mushroom lowers blood pressure in people with more severe high blood pressure. 3  Lung cancer.
1 High blood pressure. 2  There is inconsistent evidence about the effects of reishi mushroom on high blood pressure. 3  Early research suggests that taking reishi mushroom extract daily for 12 weeks does not lower blood pressure in people with slightly high blood pressure. 1 Early research suggests that taking reishi mushroom extract daily for 12 weeks does not lower blood pressure in people with slightly high blood pressure. 2  However, other research suggests that taking reishi mushroom lowers blood pressure in people with more severe high blood pressure. 3  Lung cancer.
Reishi mushroom is used for boosting the immune system; viral infections such as the flu (influenza), swine flu, and avian flu; lung conditions including asthma and bronchitis; heart disease and contributing conditions such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol; kidney disease; cancer; and liver disease. 1 Early research suggests that taking reishi mushroom extract daily for 12 weeks does not lower blood pressure in people with slightly high blood pressure. 2  However, other research suggests that taking reishi mushroom lowers blood pressure in people with more severe high blood pressure. 3  Lung cancer.