Lambda (uppercase λ, lowercase λ; Greek: λάμ(β)δα lam(b)da) is the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals lambda has a value of 30. Lambda is related to the Phoenician letter Lamed. Letters in other alphabets that stemmed from lambda include the Latin L and the Cyrillic letter El (л, л). 1 Lambda is the set of logical axioms in the axiomatic method of logical deduction in first-order logic. 2  Lambda was used as a shield pattern by the Spartan Army. 3  This stood for Lacedaemon, (λακεδαίμων, Lakedaimōn), lakedaímōn the name of the region Of.  sparta
In physics, the wavelength of a sinusoidal wave is the spatial period of the wave—the distance over which the wave's shape repeats, and the inverse of the spatial frequency. where L is the slit width, R is the distance of the pattern (on the screen) from the slit, and λ is the wavelength of light used. The function S has zeros where u is a non-zero integer, where are at x values at a separation proportion to wavelength.
Wavelength is commonly designated by the Greek letter lambda (λ). The concept can also be applied to periodic waves of non-sinusoidal shape. The term wavelength is also sometimes applied to modulated waves, and to the sinusoidal envelopes of modulated waves or waves formed by interference of several sinusoids. where L is the slit width, R is the distance of the pattern (on the screen) from the slit, and λ is the wavelength of light used. The function S has zeros where u is a non-zero integer, where are at x values at a separation proportion to wavelength.
The lowercase version of the Greek letter lambda (λ) is the standard symbol used to represent wavelength in physics and mathematics. The letter v represents velocity and ƒ represents frequency. Therefore, the wavelength of an A4 sound wave at 68° F is 343 m/s / 440 hz, which equals 0.7795 meters, or 77.95 cm. Waves in the electromagnetic spectrum, such as radio waves and light waves, have much shorter wavelengths than sound waves.
In the case of electromagnetic radiation —such as light—in free space, the phase speed is the speed of light, about 3×10 8 m/s. Thus the wavelength of a 100 MHz electromagnetic (radio) wave is about: 3×10 8 m/s divided by 10 8 Hz = 3 metres. where L is the slit width, R is the distance of the pattern (on the screen) from the slit, and λ is the wavelength of light used. The function S has zeros where u is a non-zero integer, where are at x values at a separation proportion to wavelength.
In IR spectroscopy, the $x$-axis is used to represent wavenumber, in $\mathrm{cm^{-1}}$. Why is wavelength, equal to $1/\lambda$, used in place of wavelength, which is simply $\lambda$? 
1 Lambda indicates the wavelength of any wave, especially in physics, electronics engineering, and mathematics. 2  Lambda indicates the radioactivity decay constant in nuclear physics and radioactivity. 3  This constant is very simply related (by a multiplicative constant) to the half-life of any radioactive material. 1 Lambda is the set of logical axioms in the axiomatic method of logical deduction in first-order logic. 2  Lambda was used as a shield pattern by the Spartan Army. 3  This stood for Lacedaemon, (λακεδαίμων, Lakedaimōn), lakedaímōn the name of the region Of.  sparta
Frequency, wavelength, amplitude and wave speed. You need to know about these quantities used in waves-what they mean, the symbols used for them and the units used to measure them. The amplitude, a, of a wave is the distance from the centre line (or the still position) to the top of a crest or to the bottom of a trough. (The symbol is a Greek letter, 'lambda'.) To avoid confusion, it is best to measure wavelength from the top of a crest to the top of the next crest, or from the bottom of a trough to the bottom of the next trough. Wavelength is also measured in metres (m) - it is a length after all.
I encourage you to take a close look at that section. 1) λ is the Greek letter lambda and it stands for the wavelength of light. Wavelength is defined as the distance between two successive crests of a wave. When studying light, the most common units used for wavelength are: meter, centimeter, nanometer, and Ångström. ångström 3) c is the symbol for the speed of light, the speed at which all electromagnetic radiation moves when in a perfect vacuum. (Light travels slower when passing through objects such as water, but it never travels faster than when in a perfect vacuum.). Both ways shown below are used to write the value.
Assuming a sinusoidal wave moving at a fixed wave speed, wavelength is inversely proportional to frequency of the wave: waves with higher frequencies have shorter wavelengths, and lower frequencies have longer wavelengths. Wavelength depends on the medium (for example, vacuum, air, or water) that a wave travels through. where L is the slit width, R is the distance of the pattern (on the screen) from the slit, and λ is the wavelength of light used. The function S has zeros where u is a non-zero integer, where are at x values at a separation proportion to wavelength.