The concept of tea culture is referred to in Chinese as chayi (the art of drinking tea), or cha wenhua (tea culture). Even now, tea is consumed regularly in both casual and formal Chinese occasions. In addition to being a type of beverage, Chinese tea is used in traditional Chinese medicine, as well as in Chinese cuisine.
Tea leaves are processed using traditional Chinese methods. Chinese tea is drunk throughout the day, including during meals, as a substitute for plain water, for health, or for simple pleasure. The practice of drinking tea has a long history in China, having originated there. Although tea originated in China, during the Tang Dynasty, Chinese tea generally represents tea leaves which have been processed using methods inherited from ancient China.
The Chinese tea ceremony, also called the Chinese Art of Tea, is a Chinese cultural activity involving the ceremonial preparation and presentation of tea leaves. The manner in which the tea ceremony is performed, or the art of its performance is shown in the process. Even now, tea is consumed regularly in both casual and formal Chinese occasions. In addition to being a type of beverage, Chinese tea is used in traditional Chinese medicine, as well as in Chinese cuisine.
Red tea / black tea. The tea leaves are fully fermented giving them to have a strong flavor and dark color. In comparison to other tea categories, its flavor is longer lasting and it has the highest concentration of caffeine. This is most popular form of tea in south Asia and Europe. Tea is produced in over 20 Chinese provinces. Chinese tea bushes (Camellia sinensis) are cultivated in the mountain areas of tropical and subtropical regions or whereever there is proper climate, sufficient humidity, adequate sunshine and fertile soil.
Chinese tea is a beverage made from the leaves of tea plants (Camellia sinensis) and boiled water. The practice of drinking tea has a long history in China, having originated there. Although tea originated in China, during the Tang Dynasty, Chinese tea generally represents tea leaves which have been processed using methods inherited from ancient China.
A tea house in Shanghai, China. A tea house in Presidential Palace Garden in Nanjing, China. Chinese tea culture refers to how tea is prepared, what equipment is used to make and serve tea, as well as the occasions when people consume tea to celebrate in China. Even now, tea is consumed regularly in both casual and formal Chinese occasions. In addition to being a type of beverage, Chinese tea is used in traditional Chinese medicine, as well as in Chinese cuisine.
The noun OOLONG has 1 sense: 1. Chinese tea leaves that have been partially fermented before being dried. Familiarity information: OOLONG used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: Chinese tea leaves that have been partially fermented before being dried. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Hypernyms (oolong is a kind of...): tea; tea leaf (dried leaves of the tea shrub; used to make tea)
Enjoy your favorite selection of teas with our charming Asian tea sets. Set up your table under the shade of a flowering tree on a warm day, enjoy good conversation, and invite your friends to drink from your own porcelain Chinese tea set, antique Asian tea set, or traditional matcha tea set.