Most of the human body consists of water, which is made from hydrogen and oxygen. The most abundant element in the body is oxygen. Steve Allen, Getty Images. Reference: Chang, Raymond (2007). Chemistry, Ninth Edition. McGraw-Hill. pp. 
Oxygen. This element is obviously the most important element in the human body. Oxygen atoms are present in water, which is the compound most common in the body, and other compounds that make up tissues. It is also found in the blood and lungs due to respiration. 18.6%CarbonCarbon is found in every organic molecule in the body, as well as the waste product of respiration (carbon dioxide). Percentage of Body WeightElementUsage 65%OxygenThis element is obviously the most important element in the human body. Oxygen atoms are present in water, which is the compound most common in the body, and other compounds that make up tissues.
Oxygen is the most abundant element in the earth's crust and in the body. The body's 43 kilograms of oxygen is found mostly as a component of water, which makes up 70% of total body weight. The table below gives the amount of each chemical element found in the human body, from most to least abundant. For each element, there is the amount in mass units in an averge (70-kilogram) person, the volume of the element, and the length of the side of a cube that would contain that amount of the pure element.
Here's a look at the chemical composition of the human body, including element abundance and how each element is used. Elements are listed in order of decreasing abundance, with the most common element (by mass) listed first. Carbon is the second most abundant element in the human body, accounting for 18% of body weight. All organic molecules (fats, proteins, carbohydrates, nucleic acids) contain carbon. Carbon also is found as carbon dioxide or CO 2. You inhale air that contains about 20% oxygen
By mass, oxygen is the most abundant element in the human body. If you think about it, this makes sense, since most of the body consists of water or H 2 O. Oxygen accounts for 61-65% of the mass of the human body. Carbon is the second most abundant element in the human body, accounting for 18% of body weight. All organic molecules (fats, proteins, carbohydrates, nucleic acids) contain carbon. Carbon also is found as carbon dioxide or CO 2. You inhale air that contains about 20% oxygen
The most abundant element in the human body   by number of atoms-hydrogen   by weight-oxygen   The most abundant element in the human body is oxygen. About two t … hirds (65%) of the human body is oxygen by mass.     The most abundant metal in the human body is calcium. If you are wondering by weight, it is: OXYGEN If you are wondering by number of atoms it is: HYDROGEN If you might wanna know, or more info...Here is this: The MOST abundant … element in the human body is oxygen. It cover about two thirds. (Around 65% (in percentage) If you are looking by mass
Notes. Oxygen is the most abundant element in the earth's crust and in the body. The body's 43 kilograms of oxygen is found mostly as a component of water, which makes up 70% of total body weight. Oxygen is also an integral component of all proteins, nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), carbohydrates, and fats. The table below gives the amount of each chemical element found in the human body, from most to least abundant. For each element, there is the amount in mass units in an averge (70-kilogram) person, the volume of the element, and the length of the side of a cube that would contain that amount of the pure element.