From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Indometacin (INN and BAN) or indomethacin (AAN, USAN and former BAN) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) commonly used as a prescription medication to reduce fever, pain, stiffness, and swelling. It works by inhibiting the production of prostaglandins, molecules known to cause these symptoms. Indomethacin has also been used clinically to delay premature labor, reduce amniotic fluid in polyhydramnios, and to close patent ductus arteriosus. Indomethacin is a potent drug with many serious side effects and should not be considered an analgesic for minor aches and pains or fever.
Indomethacin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat mild to moderate acute pain and relieve symptoms of arthritis (osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis) or gout, such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. Indomethacin is also used to treat ankylosing spondylitis, which is a type of arthritis that affects the joints in the spine. This medicine may also be used to treat painful shoulder caused by bursitis or tendinitis. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Indomethacin is a prescription drug used to treat moderate to severe pain, swelling, and stiffness from arthritis. Indomethacin belongs to a class of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These drugs treat swelling, pain, and fever by blocking the production of substances in the body called prostaglandins, which regulate inflammation and other bodily processes. Use indomethacin with caution if you have high blood pressure, heart failure, or edema (fluid retention), or if you have ever had a peptic ulcer. You should not take indomethacin for two weeks after having a type of heart bypass surgery called coronary artery bypass graft.
A: Indomethacin (Indocin) is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), used to treat inflammation from gout, and other conditions, such as arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, tendonitis, or bursitis. Indomethacin does not lower uric acid levels in the body. Use indomethacin with caution if you have high blood pressure, heart failure, or edema (fluid retention), or if you have ever had a peptic ulcer. You should not take indomethacin for two weeks after having a type of heart bypass surgery called coronary artery bypass graft.
Doctors may also use indomethacin to treat bursitis (shoulder joint inflammation), gout, or gouty arthritis, (a form of arthritis caused by crystals of uric acid building up inside joints), and inflammation of tendons (tissue that attaches muscles to bones). Use indomethacin with caution if you have high blood pressure, heart failure, or edema (fluid retention), or if you have ever had a peptic ulcer. You should not take indomethacin for two weeks after having a type of heart bypass surgery called coronary artery bypass graft.
Indomethacin is in a group of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Indomethacin works by reducing hormones that cause inflammation and pain in the body. Indomethacin is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by many conditions such as arthritis, gout, ankylosing spondylitis, bursitis, or tendinitis. Indomethacin may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Indomethacin is used for treating moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. It is used to treat gout or certain types of bursitis and tendonitis. It may also be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. Use Indomethacin as directed by your doctor. The recommended adult dosage of Indomethacin Capsules to treat Moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis; moderate to severe ankylosing spondylitis and moderate to severe osteoarthritis is 25 mg twice a day. Indomethacin (Indomethacin) is used for treating moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Indomethacin Capsules: We supply Inmecin (Sometimes Indomethacin is also referred to as: Indocap, Indocin, Indocid or Indochron).
Indomethacin is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by many conditions such as arthritis, gout, ankylosing spondylitis, bursitis, or tendinitis. Less serious side effects may include: 1  upset stomach, mild heartburn, diarrhea, constipation; 2  bloating, gas; 3  dizziness, nervousness, headache; 4  skin rash, itching; 5  blurred vision; or. 6  ringing in your ears.
Uses of This Medicine. Indomethacin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) used to treat mild to moderate acute pain and relieve symptoms of arthritis (osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis) or gout, such as inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain. 