Geometric patterns are also common in jasper stones. If a stone is an agate, it will be translucent as is chalcedony, but an agate will have patterns. Most commonly, agates have bands, and are appropriately called banded agate. Sometimes the bands are also translucent, sometimes some are opaque.
Finally, the rarest Lake Superior agate is the one that recurs in a collector's dreams but is discovered in reality perhaps once in a lifetime. On average only one out of every 10,000 agates fits this description. They are the ones weighing 2 pounds or more and having perfect shape, color, and banding quality.
Banded Agates. Banded agates are some of the most popular. They are found all around the world, with Brazil being one of the most productive sources. Note that many of the richly colored, banded agates you see for sale are dyed. Banded agate.
1 Riband agate (also called ribbon agate) - agate with relatively broad bands. 2  Ring agate-agate exhibiting concentric color bands -- cf. 3  eye agate. 4  In addition, however, the term ring agate is frequently used in the marketplace to refer to any agate that is set in any ring (finger, ear, etc.).
Description. The Lake Superior agate differs from other agates found around the world in its rich red, orange, and yellow coloring. This color scheme is caused by the oxidation of iron. Iron leached from rocks provided the pigment that gives the gemstone its beautiful array of color.
Some say Lake Superior agates are the oldest in the world. However that may be, hobbyists like to search for them, and anyone can appreciate the remarkable colors and intricate patterns of the polished stones.
Agate and jasper are part of the chalcedony family, a variety of quartz. Distinctly banded specimens that differ in color and in degree of translucency are called agate; and mottled yellow, red, brown or green chalcedony is called jasper.
1 Dendritic Agate is technically not a true Agate, as it lacks the banding patterns exhibited in Agates. 2  Eye Agate-Agate with banded, concentric rings that are perfectly rounded. 3  Fire Agate-Form of Agate or Chalcedony that is iridescent with a play of colors or fire similar to that of Opal.