When the Devonian period dawned about 416 million years ago the planet was changing its appearance. The great supercontinent of Gondwana was headed steadily northward, away from the South Pole, and a second supercontinent began to form that straddled the Equator. Some Devonian trees are known to have grown 100 feet (30 meters) tall. By the end of the period the first ferns, horsetails, and seed plants had also appeared. The new life burgeoning on land apparently escaped the worst effects of the mass extinction that ended the Devonian. The main victims were marine creatures, with up to 70 percent of species wiped out
Plants, which had begun colonizing the land during the Silurian Period, continued to make evolutionary progress during the Devonian. Lycophytes, horsetails and ferns grew to large sizes and formed Earth’s first forests. By the end of the Devonian, progymnosperms such as Archaeopteris were the first successful trees. Cartilaginous fish such as sharks and rays were common by the late Devonian. Devonian strata also contain the first fossil ammonites. By the mid-Devonian, the fossil record shows evidence that there were two new groups of fish that had true bones, teeth, swim bladders and gills.
During the Tertiary Period the dominant organisms were mammals.  These mammals included the many different types of dinosaurs that  were roaming the earth 65 million years a … go. 1 The Devonian Period, from the Paleozoic Era, was also known as the Age of the Fishes. 2  At th…. 3  Domain Archaea: a New Discovery Organisms from the domain archaea are microscopic organisms that were just discovered in the 1970s.
The dominant marine/aquatic animals during the Devonian included the placoderm fishes, and important marine invertebrates included trilobites, nautiloids and the first ammonit … es. The first land animals were arthropods, including scorpions, spider-like and mite-like arachnids, primitive insects, and myriapods. 1 The Devonian Period, from the Paleozoic Era, was also known as the Age of the Fishes. 2  At th…. 3  Domain Archaea: a New Discovery Organisms from the domain archaea are microscopic organisms that were just discovered in the 1970s.
By the Late Devonian, lycophytes, sphenophytes, ferns, and progymnosperms had evolved. Most of these plants have true roots and leaves, and many grew quite tall. The progymnosperm Archaeopteris (see photo above) was a large tree with true wood. By the Devonian Period, colonization of the land was well underway. Before this time, there was no organic accumulation in the soils, resulting in soils with a reddish color. This is indicative of the underdeveloped landscape, probably colonized only by bacterial and algal mats.
Confidence votes 450. The dominant marine/aquatic animals during the Devonian included the placoderm fishes, and important marine invertebrates included trilobites, nautiloids and the first ammonites. 1 The Devonian Period, from the Paleozoic Era, was also known as the Age of the Fishes. 2  At th…. 3  The Animals of the Cambrian Period The Cambrian Period marked the beginning of the Paleozoic era 541 million years ago. 4  This period in time saw a great increase in the number and variety of complex life forms ….
The Devonian Extinction. Toward the end of the Devonian, nearly 70% of all invertebrate species vanished during the Late Devonian extinction. Marine species (especially tropical ones) suffered the most extinctions, followed by freshwater species, whereas terrestrial species were hardly affected. 
The Devonian is a geologic period and system of the Paleozoic Era spanning from the end of the Silurian Period, about 419.2 ± 3.2 Mya (million years ago), to the beginning of the Carboniferous Period, about 358.9 ± 0.4. It is named after Devon, England, where rocks from this period were first studied. By the middle of the Devonian, several groups of plants had evolved leaves and true roots, and by the end of the period the first seed-bearing plants appeared. Various terrestrial arthropods also became well-established.
The Devonian Period of the Paleozoic Era lasted from 417 million years ago to 354 million years ago. It is named for Devon, England where the old red sandstone of the Devonian was first studied. The Continents of The Devonian. During the Devonian there were important changes in the land masses on the globe. North America and Europe had collided forming a large continent called Euramerica. This caused the formation of the Appalachian Mountain Range. The other large land mass was Gondwana.