An Alpha is the leader of a pack of werewolves. It is the strongest, most powerful and so far the most lethal variety of Werewolf. Becoming an Alpha. 1  A Beta or Omega can become an Alpha by killing an Alpha. Special Abilities. 1  An Alpha’s bite can transform a human into a werewolf. 2  The bite usually only has two outcomes-transformation or death although there are exceptions (See Lydia Martin and Kanima).
Main article: Alpha. A True Alpha is a werewolf who rises to Alpha status solely on the strength and purity of their character, sheer force of will. True Alphas are rare, only appearing once in a 100 years. 
These are called “True Alphas” and are very rare. Our understanding of the True Alpha status is evolving. We're told a True Alpha's status can only be taken by a Beta of his own making but this may not be the case. Special Abilities. 1  An Alpha’s bite can transform a human into a werewolf. 2  The bite usually only has two outcomes-transformation or death although there are exceptions (See Lydia Martin and Kanima).
— Oracle, about Alpha Werewolves. An Alpha Werewolf is the leader of a pack of werewolves. It is the strongest, most powerful and by far the most lethal variety of Werewolf. Similar to wizards, Alpha's are said to possess great power and wisdom. 1 Alpha Bite: The bite of an alpha can turn a human into a Werewolf. 2  Alpha Voice Roar: When an Alpha is in danger, it sends out a loud howl or roar that signals other members of its pack.
1 Alpha Bite: Only the bite of an alpha can turn a human into a Werewolf. 2  Regenerative Healing: Alphas heal much faster than humans and are immune to diseases. 3  Merging: Alpha twins have shown the ability to merge into one Super-Wolf. 1 Alpha Roar: The roar of an Alpha Werewolf has the ability to force the transformation of other werewolves against their will. 2  Retractable Fangs: Alphas can retract their fangs, back and forth. 3  Pain Absorption: Alphas can absorb the pain of other beings.
True Alpha Edit. A True Alpha is a werewolf that dosen't need to steal his/her powers from another Alpha. This Werewolf can rise to this status by his/her own will and strength of character. 1 Alpha Roar: The roar of an Alpha Werewolf has the ability to force the transformation of other werewolves against their will. 2  Retractable Fangs: Alphas can retract their fangs, back and forth. 3  Pain Absorption: Alphas can absorb the pain of other beings.
312 pages on this wiki. The Alpha Werewolf is the leader of the pack. Many Alphas have the ability to turn into a wolf completely. A Beta or an Omega can become an Alpha by killing one (stealing their power). An Alpha can gain more power by killing his/her Betas. 1 Alpha Roar: The roar of an Alpha Werewolf has the ability to force the transformation of other werewolves against their will. 2  Retractable Fangs: Alphas can retract their fangs, back and forth. 3  Pain Absorption: Alphas can absorb the pain of other beings.
There are many different kinds of werewolves, and the Alpha Wolf is just one. Although some may argue the Alpha Wolf is the most important and powerful kind of werewolf there is. Historically the Alpha werewolf is a shape changing creature that can become wolf by rubbing an ointment on themselves or by wearing a charm. Other ancient legends point to heredity playing a big part in the Alpha wolves. These legends state that one can only be an Alpha wolf if they are born into it. 
N/A. The Alpha Werewolf is the very first werewolf and progenitor of all other of their species. Being closer to the Alpha up to the fourth generation, werewolves are considered pure-bloods