(2) If a provision of this Act does not come into operation before 1 January 2011, it comes into operation on that day. s. 2. Part 1—Preliminary Education and Training Reform Amendment Act 2010 No. 27 of 2010 3 3 Principal Act In this Act, the Education and Training Reform Act 2006 is called the Principal Act. 61 New section 6.1.15 inserted At the end of Chapter 6 of the Principal Act insert —  6.1.15 Transitional provision—Education and Training Reform Amendment Act 2010 (1) This section applies to a school that is deemed under clause 1.5 of Schedule 8 to be registered as a school under this Act.
(2) The Council of the Victorian Institute of Teaching continues in operation despite the changes to its constitution effected under section 13 of the Education and Training Reform Amendment Act 2010. 61 New section 6.1.15 inserted At the end of Chapter 6 of the Principal Act insert —  6.1.15 Transitional provision—Education and Training Reform Amendment Act 2010 (1) This section applies to a school that is deemed under clause 1.5 of Schedule 8 to be registered as a school under this Act.
The main provisions of the Education Reform Act are as follows: 1  Academic tenure was abolished for academics appointed on or after 20 November 1987. 2  An element of choice was introduced, where parents could specify which school was their preferred choice. 1 This part of the Act allowed all schools to be taken out of the direct financial control of local authorities. 2  Financial control would be handed to the head teacher and governors of a school. 3  The National Curriculum (NC) was introduced.
Wall Street Reform: The Dodd-Frank Act. In the fall of 2008, a financial crisis of a scale and severity not seen in generations left millions of Americans unemployed and resulted in trillions in lost wealth. And it allowed some irresponsible lenders to use hidden fees and fine print to take advantage of consumers. To make sure that a crisis like this never happens again, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act into law.
Congress can promote this goal through the A-PLUS Act and by reducing federal competitive grant programs and spending. In higher education, Congress should advance reform through the HERO Act and by limiting federal loan programs that have encouraged families to incur high levels of debt. In turn, state policymakers can take the lead in determining their own students’ K–12 education priorities under the A-PLUS Act. They will also need to structure their own higher education accreditation process under the HERO Act. Federal action: The HERO Act would decouple federal higher education financing (student loans and grants) from the federal accreditation process. States would be free to establish their own systems for determining who can accredit or credential individual courses, programs of study, or institutions.
Often credited with creating the intellectual framework and political impetus for the reform act (referred to herein as MERA, or the Act), the MBAE and their contemporaries, both in and out of government, established the framework under which public education in Massachusetts has operated over the ensuing two decades. Page | 6 to establish the aid amount. In this sense, the Education Reform Act’s finance system embodied the core choices and assumptions about maintaining local control and depending on the development of l ocal district capacity to meet the new state standards.
Changes to legislation: There are outstanding changes not yet made by the legislation.gov.uk editorial team to Education Reform Act 1988. Any changes that have already been made by the team appear in the content and are referenced with annotations. 
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB) is a United States Act of Congress that is a reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, which included Title I, the government's flagship aid program for disadvantaged students. Schools that receive Title I funding through the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 must make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) in test scores (e.g. each year, fifth graders must do better on standardized tests than the previous year's fifth graders).
There are outstanding changes not yet made by the legislation.gov.uk editorial team to Education Reform Act 1988. Those changes will be listed when you open the content using the Table of Contents below. Any changes that have already been made by the team appear in the content and are referenced with annotations. 