From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Both in common law and in civil law, a rebuttable presumption (in Latin, praesumptio iuris tantum) is an assumption made by a court, one that is taken to be true unless someone comes forward to contest it and prove otherwise. For example, a defendant in a criminal case is presumed innocent until proved guilty. A rebuttable presumption is often associated with prima facie evidence. Rebuttable presumptions in criminal law are somewhat controversial in that they do effectively reverse the presumption of innocence in some cases.
2. Rape and consent. 8. Rape has been described as the most serious, the most feared and the most debated of all sexual offences.[ 8] During the Bill's progress through Parliament, strong opinions have been expressed both for and against the proposed reforms on rape. In this section, we concentrate on the three major issues.
A boy or girl under the age of 16 cannot consent in law, (Archbold 2004, 20-152). Consent should be carefully considered when deciding not only what offence to charge but also whether it is in the public interest to prosecute. The Sexual offences Act 1956 contains no statutory definition of 'consent'. Juries must be told that the word should be given its ordinary meaning, and that there is a difference between 'consent' and 'submission'. Lack of consent may be demonstrated by:
A conclusion as to the existence or nonexistence of a fact that a judge or jury must draw when certain evidence has been introduced and admitted as true in a lawsuit but that can be contradicted by evidence to the contrary. 
In some cases, however, a rebuttable presumption can also work in favor of the accused. For instance, in Australia, there is a rebuttable presumption that a child aged at least 10 but less than 14 is incapable of committing a criminal act. For example, a defendant in a criminal case is presumed innocent until proved guilty. A rebuttable presumption is often associated with prima facie evidence. Rebuttable presumptions in criminal law are somewhat controversial in that they do effectively reverse the presumption of innocence in some cases.
The test of reasonable belief in consent. The evidential and conclusive presumptions about consent and the defendant’s belief in consent’ . Under the old law which was the Sexual Offences Act 1956 there was no precise definition of consent, only a vague idea of how consent could be given. Therefore looking at the definition of consent it is obvious that these kinds of circumstances throw the term ‘freedom’ and ‘choice’ into disarray. S 76 (2) of the Sexual Offences act 2003 creates a rule of law and not a mere presumption.
EVIDENCE, CONCLUSIVE. That which, while uncontradicted, satisfies the judge and jury it is also that which cannot be contradicted. 2. The record of a court of common law jurisdiction is conclusive as to the facts therein stated. 2 Wash. 64; 2 H. 55; 6 Conn. 508, But the judgment and record of a prize court is not conclusive evidence in the state courts, unless it had jurisdiction of the subject-matter; and whether it had or not, the state courts may decide.
In English law, a conclusive presumption is a presumption of law that cannot be rebutted by evidence and must be taken to be the case whatever the evidence to the contrary. A conclusive presumption (also known as an irrebuttable presumption) is a type of presumption used in several legal systems.
A conclusive presumption is a presumption that is so strong, that no evidence will be allowed to rebut or overcome it. A conclusive presumption is also referred to as an absolute presumption or an irrebuttable presumption. 1  Never Talk to the Police Know your rights when stopped or questioned by law enforcement. 2  It can make the difference in your case.