The distinction is that eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus containing their DNA, whereas prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes contain large RNA / protein structures called ribosomes, which produce protein. Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization.
The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA. 
Prokaryotes. Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. This means the genetic material DNA in prokaryotes is not bound within a nucleus. Additionally, the DNA is less structured in prokaryotes than in eukaryotes. In prokaryotes, DNA is a single loop. These two groups are the prokaryotes and the eukaryotes. Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organelles. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-boun
Prokaryotic cells are quite simple in structure. They have no nucleus, no organelles and a small amount of DNA in the form of a single, circular chromosome. Eukaryotic cells on the other hand, have a nucleus, multiple organelles and more DNA arranged in multiple, linear chromosomes. The average eukaryotic cell has 25 times more DNA than a prokaryotic cell. In prokaryotic cells, there is only one point of origin, replication occurs in two opposing directions at the same time, and takes place in the cell cytoplasm.
by admin. Prokaryotic vs Eukaryotic DNA. All the organisms are classified as either Prokaryotic or Eukaryotic. The Organisms that lack nucleus or membrane bounded organelles are called prokaryote while eukaryotes have ‘true’ nuclei that contain DNA and membrane bound organelles. All the animals, plants, and fungus are eukaryotic organisms; nuclear envelope is the most defining character for all eukaryotic organisms. In eukaryotes, mostly DNA is stored inside the cell nucleus, but some are found within the organelles such as chloroplasts and mitochondria.
Report Abuse. The DNA in eukaryote cells is located in the nucleus. Prokaryote cells do not have a nucleus, so there DNA is located within the cytoplasm of the cell. This DNA is small and circular. shelle · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 0. 1 comment. Loading ..
Prokaryotic cells do not contain nuclei or other membrane-bound organelles. In fact, the word  prokaryote  literally means before the nucleus.. The nucleoid is simply the area of a prokaryotic cell in which the chromosomal DNA is located. 
Eukaryotes. Eukaryotes are organisms made up of cells that possess a membrane-bound nucleus (that holds genetic material) as well as membrane-bound organelles. Genetic material in eukaryotes is contained within a nucleus within the cell and DNA is organized into chromosomes. These two groups are the prokaryotes and the eukaryotes. Prokaryotes are organisms made up of cells that lack a cell nucleus or any membrane-encased organell
• In eukaryotes, DNA is found mostly in the cell nucleus, but some are in mitochondria and chloroplast while, in prokaryotes, it is found in the cytoplasm. • DNA usually occurs as circular chromosomes in Prokaryotes while it is linear chromosomes in Eukaryotes. All the animals, plants, and fungus are eukaryotic organisms; nuclear envelope is the most defining character for all eukaryotic organisms. In eukaryotes, mostly DNA is stored inside the cell nucleus, but some are found within the organelles such as chloroplasts and mitochondria.
DNA in pro-/eukaryotes. Cells are the basal unit of all living organisms (except virusses, but these are not true, independently living organisms). There are two kinds of cells on the earth: types of cells: prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells (eu = true; karyon = nucleus, pit). 