Augmented reality (AR) is a live direct or indirect view of a physical, real-world environment whose elements are augmented (or supplemented) by computer-generated sensory input such as sound, video, graphics or GPS data. As a result, the technology functions by enhancing one’s current perception of reality. By contrast, virtual reality replaces the real world with a simulated one. Augmentation is conventionally in real-time and in semantic context with environmental elements, such as sports scores on TV during a match.
The goal of this wiki is to give an overview of what augmented reality is, its history and evolution as seen in many fields and to critically evaluate the use of augmented reality in education. The wiki was formerly housed at the University of Illinois WikEd. If we consider the first down line as an example of a very simple augmented reality, the Wii could illustrate a more interactive rendering of AR. Here the user reacts in the real world to perform some activity that can be seen in the both the real and virtual world.
A notable example of an augmented reality app is Recognizr, which links face recognition software to social networking profiles. This means that you could simply capture a person's image in your mobile's viewfinder, and potentially have access to their identity, contact details and a range of personal information. These are the sort of possibilities afforded by the new technology of augmented reality. In fundamental terms, the expression augmented reality, often abbreviated to AR, refers to a simple combination of real and virtual (computer-generated) worlds. Given a real subject, captured on video or camera, the technology ' augments ' (= adds to) that real-world image with extra layers of digit
The expression augmented reality most commonly appears in conjunction with the term app, the clipped form now used as a popular variant of the word application and used in the context of 3G mobile phones and other handheld electronic devices. These are the sort of possibilities afforded by the new technology of augmented reality. In fundamental terms, the expression augmented reality, often abbreviated to AR, refers to a simple combination of real and virtual (computer-generated) worlds. Given a real subject, captured on video or camera, the technology ' augments ' (= adds to) that real-world image with extra layers of digital information
AR displays can be rendered on devices resembling eyeglasses. Versions include eyewear that employ cameras to intercept the real world view and re-display its augmented view through the eye pieces and devices in which the AR imagery is projected through or reflected off the surfaces of the eyewear lens pieces. As a result, the technology functions by enhancing one’s current perception of reality. By contrast, virtual reality replaces the real world with a simulated one. Augmentation is conventionally in real-time and in semantic context with environmental elements, such as sports scores on TV during a match.
Augmented reality (AR) is the integration of digital information with live video or the user's environment in real time. Basically, AR takes an existing picture and blends new information into it. 1 Images of historical recreations integrated with the current environment. 2  A display in a pilot's helmet that allows the pilot to, in effect, see through the aircraft. 3  Mobile marketing involving product information displayed over that product or its location.
Definition of AUGMENTED REALITY. : an enhanced version of reality created by the use of technology to overlay digital information on an image of something being viewed through a device (as a smartphone camera); also: the technology used to create augmented reality. ADVERTISEMENT.
Augmented Reality as suggested by Wikipedia: Augmented reality (AR) is a field of computer research which deals with the combination of real-world and computer-generated data (virtual reality), where computer graphics objects are blended into real footage in real time. Innovation. Augmented reality (AR) is a field of computer research which deals with the combination of real-world and computer-generated data (virtual reality), where computer graphics objects are blended into real footage in real time.