More Reasons We're Simply Smarter. At Budget Direct we work tirelessly to improve the way we provide insurance to our customers. We've combined more than 30 years of innovation from our group around the world with 14 years of homegrown Australian excellence to offer you Simply Smarter Insurance. Here’s an extended list of our simply smarter innovations. * See what this figure is based on. $ *. We won Money magazine's Cheapest Car Insurance award back to back taking the top spot in both 2014 and 2015. We're the only Insurance provider to win the coveted National CANSTAR award for Outstanding Value every year since it was first presented in 2007.
No it’s not included on our Comprehensive policy, although you do get up to two weeks’ use of a hire car if your vehicle is stolen. If you’d like a hire car to drive if yours is involved in an accident, you can add the option to your policy for just over $1 a week. Your No Claims Discount (NCD) is a discount on your car insurance premium. It’s based on how long you’ve been driving and your claims record. As you accumulate more years of driving without making a claim, you receive a discount on the full-priced premium until it reaches a maximum discount (also known as 'Rating 1').
if you want insurance that will actually look after you and pay out when it matters go for someone like RACQ.. Budget direct is an awful company, never has a car insurance company tried to charge me for cancelling my policy, in fact i forgot to cancel my policy with RACV and they refunded me 4 months insurance. The mechainc said they were the only insurance company that doesn't cover that. So out of the 6 cars and the years of paying them about $6,000 a year they still wouldn't give us our pre paid money back after we sold the vehicle.
You may find the details about your car on previous insurance certificates, registration papers or badges on the vehicle. If you still can't find them, you may need to get in touch with the dealership you bought the vehicle from, or even the manufacturer. Your No Claims Discount (NCD) is a discount on your car insurance premium. It’s based on how long you’ve been driving and your claims record. As you accumulate more years of driving without making a claim, you receive a discount on the full-priced premium until it reaches a maximum discount (also known as 'Rating 1').
Budget Direct Official. Hi Pamela, our current 25% discount on comprehensive car insurance (that was listed on your quote, as well as online) is a limited time offer, so I cannot guarantee it will be available in future years. The mechainc said they were the only insurance company that doesn't cover that. So out of the 6 cars and the years of paying them about $6,000 a year they still wouldn't give us our pre paid money back after we sold the vehicle.
FAQs. Market Value is the reasonable cost to replace your vehicle with one of the same make, model, age and condition at the time it’s stolen or damaged. Your No Claims Discount (NCD) is a discount on your car insurance premium. It’s based on how long you’ve been driving and your claims record. As you accumulate more years of driving without making a claim, you receive a discount on the full-priced premium until it reaches a maximum discount (also known as 'Rating 1').
You can pay fortnightly, monthly or annually and you can choose from a range of payment methods, including Direct Debit, Credit Card and now PayPal (for online purchases of Car, Home, Contents, Home & Contents or Travel Insurance products). Find out more. Your No Claims Discount (NCD) is a discount on your car insurance premium. It’s based on how long you’ve been driving and your claims record. As you accumulate more years of driving without making a claim, you receive a discount on the full-priced premium until it reaches a maximum discount (also known as 'Rating 1').
1 out of 5, reviewed on May 29, 2015. Received letter in mail from Budget Direct offering quote on car insurance. 2 days later contacted Budget Direct by phone to accept offer and spoke to someone called [name removed] who apparently couldn't find any record of the offer they had mailed out to me. Policy can't be found. 1 out of 5, reviewed on Apr 02, 2015. I insured my sons car on the Internet, the next morning a lady from budget direct called and done up a new policy with my son and cancelled the first policy. My son is 18 and never had insurance so was unsure what was going on.
If you need to make a car insurance claim, please call 1300 139 591, or to make a home & contents claim please call 1800 069 336. If you would like to speak to our customer services department about our policies in general, please call 1300 306 560. Regards, Alysse. Budget Direct replied on Jan 28, 2014. The mechainc said they were the only insurance company that doesn't cover that. So out of the 6 cars and the years of paying them about $6,000 a year they still wouldn't give us our pre paid money back after we sold the vehicle.