Experience: The Trainee Appraiser level does not have an experience requirement. Each Trainee Appraiser must be supervised to get the required hours of experience before applying for the Licensed Residential Appraiser level. Locating a certified appraiser is a very important step to becoming an appraiser. 
The appraiser briefly walks through the house to get an idea of the general condition and room count. An appraisal is not a guarantee of condition. The appraiser will ask about any visible problems and those which may not be visible, and will do his/her best to gauge any impact on value attributable to those problems.
What Do YOU think?! 1  Do you agree that it takes 25 hours to complete a USPAP compliant development of a non-complex market value residential appraisal? 2  How long does it take to complete the development required by SR 1-4? 3  Do you think the requirements of SR 1-4 are excessive? 4  If it takes 25 hours to complete the development of a USPAP compliant ... The amount of time spent complying with SR 1-4 ranges from 18 to 32 hours. The mid-range estimate to complete the development of a non-complex residential market value appraisal is 25 hours.
Without knowing your particular situation. (Purchase, Refinance, FHA etc) Depending on the Bank and several other factors it could take up to a week or more. Normaly the bank will place the order for the appraisal. The order will be assigned to an appraiser. A long time... Had an appraisal ordered for a conventional loan in the Austin area for a rural property. Was accepted by an appraiser a few days after being ordered (Tues), 4 days later (Friday afternoon) that appraiser declined the job.
House Examination. The physical house examination might be quick, taking around 15 minutes, or upwards of two to three hours, depending on the size and condition of the property. Evaluating condition, as average, good, fair or poor, can greatly affect a home's value. Comparables. Recent area sales, within the prior 12 months, of similar properties must be used to establish an accurate opinion of value. Before the advent of fast, sophisticated appraisal report software and accurate real estate data bases, appraisers had to conduct time-consuming searches of real estate records.
Home appraisals are usually less than 10 pages and completed within seven days. A house appraisal has three components. First, the appraiser must physically visit and examine the home. Comparables. Recent area sales, within the prior 12 months, of similar properties must be used to establish an accurate opinion of value. Before the advent of fast, sophisticated appraisal report software and accurate real estate data bases, appraisers had to conduct time-consuming searches of real estate records.
One or two hours is the average time spent for most appraisals of property. You should most likely receive the report in three to seven business days on average. The amount of time it takes can depend on the type of report, size of property, and other factors. 
The average cost of a residential appraisal is $375 and usually takes three business days from the time you order it until you receive the final report. The average cost of a commercial appraisal is $1,900 and takes two weeks to complete. However, every piece of real estate is unique and vary in cost & turn time. 
Appraisal Reports. Appraisal reports come in two types. Full narrative appraisals, used for larger commercial properties, can involve up to 100 pages and take two to four weeks to prepare and deliver. Fortunately, almost all residential properties require only short form reports, usually 10 pages or less. Appraisers often can complete short form reports in six hours or less. Comparables. Recent area sales, within the prior 12 months, of similar properties must be used to establish an accurate opinion of value. Before the advent of fast, sophisticated appraisal report software and accurate real estate data bases, appraisers had to conduct time-consuming searches of real estate records.