In some sectors the CFO is also responsible for analysis of data. The title is equivalent to finance director (FD), a common title in the United Kingdom. The CFO typically reports to the chief executive officer and to the board of directors, and may additionally sit on the board. This officer is also responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to higher management.
Noun. 1. chief financial officer-the corporate executive having financial authority to make appropriations and authorize expenditures for a firm. CFO. business executive, corporate executive-an executive in a business corporation. 
Chief Financial Officer. In a corporation, the official charged with overseeing all financial matters. The CFO is the equivalent of a treasurer: he/she is responsible for ensuring the long-term financial health of the corporation. This includes mundane matters like signing checks and record keeping, but the CFO is also head of financial forecasting, budgeting, and managing the company's financial risk. The CFO is often a member of the board of directors, and reports to the CEO
The chief financial officer (CFO) or chief financial and operating officer (CFOO) is a corporate officer primarily responsible for managing the financial risks of the corporation. This officer is also responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to higher management.
Finance directors are members of a senior executive team with responsibility for their company’s financial health. They combine operational and strategic roles, manage accounting and financial control functions, and establish a financial strategy for the profitable long-term growth of the business. Finance directors prepare quarterly and annual accounts that present the company’s position in line with generally accepted accounting principles. They may also prepare an annual report for shareholders that provides an overview of business performance and financial results.
DEFINITION of 'Board Of Directors'. An appointed or elected body or committee that has overall responsibility for the management of a nonprofit or nonstock organization, such as a foundation, university or mutual fund. The board of trustees holds in-trust the funds, assets or property that belong to others and has a fiduciary duty to protect them.
Basic Function: The functions of the finance manager position can be considered identical to a treasurer position (see the Treasurer job description), or as a light treasurer who has additional analysis responsibilities that include support of the management team in a variety of operational decisions. Desired Qualifications: The finance manager candidate should have a Bachelor's degree in finance or accounting, or equivalent business experience and 10+ years of progressively responsible experience for a major company or division of a large corporation.
The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) holds primary responsibility for financial management standardization and improvement. Within OMB, the Deputy Director for Management, a position was established by the CFO Act, is the chief official responsible for financial management. This officer is also responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to higher
Finance director job description. As finance director you're top of the tree when it comes to making financially related business decisions. In the finance industry, it's important everyone understands what the budgets are, how the company is performing and what needs to be achieved. As the director you'll be the guru of all this information.
(Small organization—budget less than $3 million). In this model, the Director of Finance and Administration wears multiple hats. The budget can’t support specialized staff, so this position is responsible for a variety of areas far removed from the finance and administrative functions. 