Siesta Beach is located on Beach Road on Siesta Key. Siesta Beach is known as one of the most beautiful beaches anywhere in the world. At the Great International White Sand Beach Challenge held in 1987, it was recognized as having the whitest and finest sand in the world.. Since then, Siesta Key Beach has been chosen as the #1 beach in both the US and the entire world by numerous groups and publications. Unlike beaches elsewhere that are made up mostly of coral, Siesta Beach's sand is 99% quartz.
Welcome to the Siesta Key! Located on the pristine shores of the Gulf of Mexico, across the bay from mainland Sarasota, Siesta Key is the perfect destination for a holiday, a season, or a lifetime. Visit the About Siesta Key and Beaches pages to learn more about the unique character of each area. Once you identify the perfect area for your stay, you’ll want to choose your lodging style. Siesta Key boasts some of the best accommodations on the gulf coast of Florida.
Where To Stay. If you are looking for Siesta Key accommodations, you’ve come to the right place! The Siesta Key Chamber of Commerce website is a valuable source of information on Siesta Key Beach accommodations and all things Siesta Key. Siesta Key Village is a great place to enjoy nightlife on the key. You'll be within walking distance of shopping, dining, and Siesta Public Beach, the #1 beach in the United States.
Siesta-Key.Net also has information on local attractions for Sarasota visitors. See our Community listings and send us your local group for inclusion. Siesta Key beach information is listed here. Siesta Key Florida is the home of the beach with the whitest and finest sand in the world. With information and maps to guide you to finding your place in the sun on the beach with the whitest and finest sand in the world. Check out the Siesta Key accommodation listing for the right place to stay on your next vacation. 
Siesta_Key. A short drive from downtown Sarasota, Siesta Key sits adjacent to the glittering Gulf of Mexico and its Siesta Public Beach has been named one of the nation’s best. This quaint yet quirky eight-mile-long island offers one-of-a-kind shopping, resorts, dining and nightlife. 
Siesta Key Beach is central Sarasota's gateway to the sparkling waters of the Gulf of Mexico, an island with luxurious amenities and a relaxed vibe. Find Activities & Attractions Listings Get Siesta Key Trip Ideas View Siesta Key Events Watch Siesta Key Videos. 1  Tweet. Casual and beautiful, home to some of the world's best beaches, and a short drive to all that greater Sarasota has to offer. Siesta Key is a destination for all who stay or live in the Sarasota area thanks to the wide variety of entertainment and dining options that stretch its length.
Siesta Beach, on the barrier island of Siesta Key, was named the “Best Sand Beach in America 2004” by the Travel Channel. It is consistently rated among the top ten beaches in Florida, the U.S., and the world. 
WE ARE SIESTAKEY.COM. Welcome to SiestaKey.com! This is your source for Siesta Key Florida vacation information. Our tropical island community is rich with shopping, dining, and white, sandy beach experiences, making this the perfect location for your vacation to get away from it all. Siesta key's largest selection of vacation rentals. Offering studio to nine bedroom condominiums and homes for rent on Siesta Key. Gulf-side and Bayside locations nightly, three days, weekly or monthly, we have it all.
Siesta Key is a barrier island off the southwestern coast of Florida in the United States. It is situated between Roberts Bay and the Gulf of Mexico. A portion of it lies within the city boundary of Sarasota, but the majority of the key is a census-designated place (CDP) in Sarasota County. It contains a suburban residential area located on the Siesta Key barrier island on the West coast of Florida, just west of the town of Sarasota. The community on Siesta Key consists of single family homes, condominiums, retail shops and art galleries.