Lil Romeo net worth: It’s been declared the approximation of rapper’s Lil Romeo net worth reaches 5 million dollars. Also, Lil Romeo can also be an actor, model, writer and fashion designer. Moreover, Lil Romeo, whose actual name is Percy Romeo Miller, is also called entrepreneur and basketball player. Therefore, it’s not surprising the sales of his debut record raised Lil Romeo net worth a lot. In 2002, one year following the launch of the debut album, Lil Romeo’s second record was launched, that was called “Game Time”. His second record contained the single called “2 Way”.
Bow Wow net worth: $600 Thousand. Bow Wow Net Worth: Bow Wow is an American rapper and actor who has a net worth of $600 thousand. Bow Wow, also known as Shad Moss and Lil Bow Wow firsy popped onto the scene when he was 13 years old. His first album Beware of Dog was released in 2000. Bow Wow Net Worth: Bow Wow is an American rapper and actor who has a net worth of $600 thousand. Bow Wow, also known as Shad Moss and Lil Bow Wow firsy popped onto the scene when he was 13 years ol
Lil Romeo started his acting career with a cameo appearance in the 2001 film Max Keeble’s Big Move. He later co-starred with Jessica Alba, Mekhi Phifer and Zachary Isaiah Williams in the film Honey (2003). In Honey, his supporting character was Benny, a young boy looking for a break. Lil Romeo released his debut album seven years later, titled after his original alias Lil’ Romeo. This offering contained the hit single “My Baby” that charted No. 1. R&B/Hip-hop Singles. In 2002, a year later after his debut album, Miller put out his second studio album, Game Time.
7.4k. Share Tweet Share Email Follow. Romeo Miller, also known as Lil Romeo, has appeared on The Millionaire Matchmaker and the episode synopsis reads: Patti clears her schedule to coach actor-rapper Romeo Miller who has been looking for love in all the wrong places. Lil Romeo has a net worth of $5 million and he was also a basketball player for USC
The revenues of the record added first amounts of cash to Lil Romeo net worth. The record contained his single named “My Baby”, which hit the peak of the RnB and Hip Hop graphs. The record additionally took 6th position in the Billboard Top 200 album chart. Therefore, it’s not surprising the sales of his debut record raised Lil Romeo net worth a lot. In 2002, one year following the launch of the debut album, Lil Romeo’s second record was launched, that was called “Game Time”. His second record contained the single called “2 Way”.
Percy Romeo Miller, Jr. (born August 19, 1989), better known by his stage name Maserati Rome (formerly Lil' Romeo & Romeo) or his acting/business name Romeo Miller, is an American rapper, actor, basketball player, entrepreneur, and model. 
Lil Romeo net worth: $5 Million. Lil Romeo Net Worth: Lil Romeo is an American rapper, actor, basketball player, entrepreneur and model who has a net worth of $5 million dollars. Miller. In 2002, Lil' Romeo saw the release of his second album, Gametime, after which he jumped into the world of movie and TV deals. In 2003 he appeared in the feature film Honey (starring Jessica Alba) and then he signed with Nickelodeon to co-star with his father in the series Romeo! .
About Romeo Miller. Percy Romeo Miller Jr., is the son of Sonya C. Miller and hip hop mogul Master P, his net worth is estimated at $5 million. An entertainment entrepreneur, mogul and former rapper. 
About Lil Romeo. Lil Romeo has earned himself an estimated net worth of $5 million. Born in New Orleans to parents Percy and Sonya Miller. Romeo’s mother was a rapper, screen writer, television producer, singer, and television director. His father was a producer, rapper, entrepreneur, investor, and actor. In July of 2001 at the age of ten, Lil Romeo released his first CD titled “Lil Romeo”. All throughout his life, Lil Romeo took a passion to following in his father’s footsteps. Romeo’s cousin Lance was killed in 1999 in a car crash, according to young Romeo Miller, this is what inspired him to keep going.