Tennessee is the home state of Dave Loggins who has said of Please Come to Boston - The story is almost true, except there wasn't anyone waiting so I made her up. In effect, making the longing for [a companion] stronger. It was a recap to my first trip to each of those cities...[and] how I saw each one. The fact of having no one to come home to made the chorus easy to write. Some forty years later, I still vividly remember that night [of composition], and it was as if someone else was writing the song..
\nThere ain't no gold and. \nThere ain't nobody like me. \nNo, no, I'm the number one fan. \nOf the man from Tennessee. \nI'm the number one fan. \nOf the man from Tennessee. \. Please come to Boston for the spring time. \nI'm stayin' here with some friends. \nAnd they've got lots of room. \nYou can sell your paintings on the sidewalk. \nBy a cafe where I hope to be workin' soon. \nPlease come to Boston. \nShe said, \No. There ain't nobody like me. I'm the number one fan. Of the man from Tennessee. . Please come to Denver with the snow fall. We'll move up into the mountains so far. That we can't be found. And throw I love you echoes down the canyon. And then lie awake at night until they come back around.
Please Come to Boston  is a song written and recorded by American singer-songwriter Dave Loggins. It was a recap to my first trip to each of those cities...[and] how I saw each one. The fact of having no one to come home to made the chorus easy to write. Some forty years later, I still vividly remember that night [of composition], and it was as if someone else was writing the song..
By Dave Loggins. I took the time to make a little slide video. This is an amazing song. Keep the people of Boston in your thoughts and prayers. Any inappropriate or derogatory comments will be promptly removed. Thanks for watching!
He was inducted to the Nashville Songwriters' Hall of Fame in 1995. Besides a prolific song-writing career, Loggins was previously employed as a draftsman at Bristol Metals and an insurance salesman. Dave Loggins is best known for writing and recording the Top Ten Hit Please Come to Boston in 1974. However, he also wrote Pieces of April for Three Dog Night, which became a Top Ten Hit in 1971. I'm stayin' here with some friends and they've got lots of room. You can sell your paintings on the sidewalk. By a cafe café Where i hope to be' workin. Soon please come To. Boston she said, no would you come home to. / Me - - D / / G-A - / D Bm A - / G - / D-A - /. d
It's him-Dave Loggins is from TN. The woman he is singing to says it to him. And she said, hey ramblin' boy, why don't you settle down Boston ain't your kind of town Th … ere ain't no gold and there ain't nobody like me I'm the number one fan of the man from Tennessee. + 8 others found this useful. Henry Jackson
Dave Loggins wrote the song Please Come to Boston and performed it in 1974. And she said, hey ramblin' boy, why don't you settle down Boston ain't your kind of town Th … ere ain't no gold and there ain't nobody like me I'm the number one fan of the man from Tennessee. + 8 others found this useful.
Boston ain't your kind of town. There ain't no gold and. There ain't nobody like me. I'm the number one fan. Of the man from Tennessee. . Please come to Denver with the snow fall. We'll move up into the mountains so far. That we can't be found. And throw I love you echoes down the canyon. And then lie awake at night until they come back around.
Submit Corrections Cancel. Please come to Boston for the springtime. I'm staying here with some friends and they've got lots of room. You can sell you paintings on the sidewalk. By a cafe where I hope to be working soon. Please come to Boston. She said, No, David, you come home to me. 