Psychopathy, along with borderline personality disorder and malignant narcissism, is an incurable personality disorder. Personality disorders are character deficiencies that are so deeply ingrained in one’s personality that they are, for all practical purposes, unchangeable. Why this is so is still a mystery. But an intriguing implication is that the brain processes that control the psychopath’s emotions are divided and unfocused, resulting in a shallow and colorless emotional life.” (Without Conscience, 134).
The socialized psychopath then begins to build a network of people that are useful for him (or her!), while at the same time undermining the authority of the competition or those who may be able to expose them. They use people like game pieces in a game, where they are making up the rules as they go along. Understanding a psychopath. Robert Hare and Paul Babiak in their book 'Snakes in Suits' describes how the socialised psychopath will present themselves as the perfect partner by noticing the victim's needs, insecurities, and strengths as well as weaknesses in order to create a persona that seems ideal to the victim.
Best Answer: Nope. dont believe the movies always. Only a few psychopaths kill, statistics prove it. In fact, some psychopaths won't even hit a fly. Thats what makes them dangerous, because they're just like everybody else but no emotions. They manipulate people, and they have noooooo empathy. No empathy is the definition of a psychopath. They literally cannot feel emotion for anybody else but them. 
The problem with psychopaths is that they are so grandiose that they never examine their own behavior, nor do they ever seek to modify their choices. The choices they make are a deep reflection of their pathology. That pathology includes a lack of desire to be anything other than what they are. 
The victim quickly likes and then trusts the psychopath and so the mind control begins. They can be charming, witty and seem intelligent, talking easily about a range of topics. They seem friendly and understanding and may be the life and soul of a party. But for them it's all about impression management. Understanding a psychopath. Robert Hare and Paul Babiak in their book 'Snakes in Suits' describes how the socialised psychopath will present themselves as the perfect partner by noticing the victim's needs, insecurities, and strengths as well as weaknesses in order to create a persona that seems ideal to the victim.
Lack of empathy, guilt or remorse. The socialized psychopath understands people frighteningly well; it's what allows them to stay hidden. They know how to press people's buttons, how to create fear and how to use it against others. Understanding a psychopath. Robert Hare and Paul Babiak in their book 'Snakes in Suits' describes how the socialised psychopath will present themselves as the perfect partner by noticing the victim's needs, insecurities, and strengths as well as weaknesses in order to create a persona that seems ideal to the victim.
Why some violent criminals are more likely than others to offend again. Violent offenders who are also psychopaths are so dangerous because their brains do not learn normally from either punishments or rewards, a new study finds. Published in The Lancet Psychiatry, the research scanned the brains of violent offenders, some of whom were psychopaths, others not (Gregory et al., 2015). “One in five violent offenders is a psychopath. They have higher rates of recidivism and don’t benefit from rehabilitation programmes. Our research reveals why this is and can hopefully improve childhood interventions to prevent violence and behavioural therapies to reduce recidivism.”.
The shallowness of their emotions explains why psychopaths are so callous as to use and abuse even those closest to them: their partners, their children, their parents, their lovers and their so-called friends. It also clarifies why they can’t see anything wrong with their mistreatment of others. Why this is so is still a mystery. But an intriguing implication is that the brain processes that control the psychopath’s emotions are divided and unfocused, resulting in a shallow and colorless emotional life.” (Without Conscience, 134).
Another aspect is that the actions of a socialized psychopath may be 'borderline' illegal. With the state of the legal system in many places today it can be difficult to demonstrate (in legal form) emotional abuse or personality changes due to mind control. Understanding a psychopath. Robert Hare and Paul Babiak in their book 'Snakes in Suits' describes how the socialised psychopath will present themselves as the perfect partner by noticing the victim's needs, insecurities, and strengths as well as weaknesses in order to create a persona that seems ideal to the victim.