Dear Reader, Opium is a plant product derived from the sap inside of the opium poppy's seedpod. This poppy (papaver somniferum) grows in dry, warm climates, especially in the mountains stretching from Turkey through Central and South Asia all the way to Laos. It is increasingly being grown in South America, as well.
There are a wide range of effects that opium derivatives can have on the body including physical drug dependence, withdrawal symptoms and health problems. When opium is smoked, the drug causes a short-term high that includes relaxation, pain relief, reduced anxiety and impaired alertness and coordination.
As opium use progresses, the body becomes tolerant to the drug and the pain reduction qualities of this drug or its derivatives are not as profound. Feelings of pleasure and euphoria are ultimately replaced with feelings of desire or need to use more and more of the drug to produce similar euphoric effects.
Opium is a plant product derived from the sap inside of the opium poppy's seedpod. This poppy (papaver somniferum) grows in dry, warm climates, especially in the mountains stretching from Turkey through Central and South Asia all the way to Laos.
Opium (poppy tears, lachryma papaveris) is the dried latex obtained from the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum). Opium latex contains approximately 12% of the analgesic alkaloid morphine, which is processed chemically to produce heroin and other synthetic opioids for medicinal use and for the illegal drug trade.
The harmful effects that opium has on the body will depend largely on the method of opium use, the length of time that the drug is used and the individual person. If opium is refined to Morphine or Heroin and then it is injected, the dangers and harmful effects on the body can be dramatically increased.
Opium preparation is an opioid. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Opium is derived from the seed pod of a poppy plant. It works by increasing smooth muscle tone and decreasing fluid secretions in the intestines. This slows the movement of bowel matter through
Using opium for a prolonged time or using opium excessively can lead to a tolerance of the common side effects of opium and the user may not feel as relaxed when the drug is used. In fact, over time, opium use can lead to heightened anxiety, weight loss, and mental deterioration.