Hookah smoking involves more nicotine than cigarette smoking because of the massive volume of smoke, smokers inhale during hookah smoking. There is a strong belief that the water in the hookah filters out all the “bad stuff” in the tobacco smoke, but it’s completely a nuisance. 1 Researches indicate that hookah smoking can be even more harmful to health than cigarette smoking. 2  Hookah smoke has a higher level of heavy metals and carbon monoxide than cigarette smoke, because of the charcoal which is burned on top of the tobacco mixture.
An ornate, blue hookah. Using a hookah to smoke sweetened tobacco is more popular with women than men. Originating in India around the turn of the 17th century, hookahs have become extremely popular throughout the Middle East, where it is more often called shisha or narghile. View slideshow of images above. 
1 Hookahs are water pipes that are used to smoke specially made tobacco that comes in different flavors, such as apple, mint, cherry, chocolate, coconut, licorice, cappuccino, and watermelon. 2  1,2. 3  Although many users think it is less harmful, hookah smoking has many of the same health risks as cigarette smoking. 1 2. 2  The tobacco in hookahs is exposed to high heat from burning charcoal, and the smoke is at least as toxic as cigarette smoke. 3  1,2. 4  Because of the way a hookah is used, smokers may absorb more of the toxic substances also found in cigarette smoke than cigarette smokers do.
1 The tobacco in hookahs is exposed to high heat from burning charcoal, and the smoke is at least as toxic as cigarette smoke. 2  1,2. 3  Because of the way a hookah is used, smokers may absorb more of the toxic substances also found in cigarette smoke than cigarette smokers do. 1 2. 2  The tobacco in hookahs is exposed to high heat from burning charcoal, and the smoke is at least as toxic as cigarette smoke. 3  1,2. 4
[hukkā], ḥuqqah, Hukić —also known as a waterpipe, narghile, arghila, qalyān, shisha, or by other names) is a single or multi-stemmed instrument for vaporizing and smoking flavored tobacco called shisha in which the vapor or smoke is passed through a water basin—often glass-based—before inhalation. Hookah smokers inhale nicotine which is an addictive chemical. A typical hookah smoking session delivers 1.7 times the nicotine dose of one cigarette and the nicotine absorption rate in daily waterpipe users is equivalent to smoking 10 cigarettes per day.
Hookahs use various types of shisha, a type of sticky tobacco soaked in molasses or honey. It typically has a sweet aroma. Shisha is available in several flavors, including apple, plum, coconut, mint, strawberry and mango. Parts. According to the Mayo Clinic, the hookah consists of four parts: the smoke chamber, the bowl, the pipe and the hose. The person inhales through the hose, which causes pressure to build up in the bowl. This heats the tobacco and causes it to smoke.
Hookah smoking is not safer than cigarette smoking. Also known as a narghile, shisha or goza, a hookah is a water pipe with a smoke chamber, a bowl, a pipe and a hose. Specially made tobacco is heated, and the smoke passes through water and is then drawn through a rubber hose to a mouthpiece. Hookah smokers may actually inhale more tobacco smoke than cigarette smokers do because of the large volume of smoke they inhale in one smoking session, which can last as long as 60 minutes. While research about hookah smoking is still emerging, evidence shows that it poses many dangers:
Save. A hookah is a type of water pipe used to smoke flavored tobacco, which is a popular social activity among young adults in the United States, the United Kingdom and the Middle East. Parts. According to the Mayo Clinic, the hookah consists of four parts: the smoke chamber, the bowl, the pipe and the hose. The person inhales through the hose, which causes pressure to build up in the bowl. This heats the tobacco and causes it to smoke.
Most of the people think hookah smoking as a safer alternative to other forms of smoking because the hookah smoke is filtered through water before it is inhaled. But recent studies have found that smoking from a hookah is just as dangerous as smoking a cigarette. 1 Researches indicate that hookah smoking can be even more harmful to health than cigarette smoking. 2  Hookah smoke has a higher level of heavy metals and carbon monoxide than cigarette smoke, because of the charcoal which is burned on top of the tobacco mixture.