The word 'clinker' has several definitions and it really depends what it is related to. This article refers to wood ash clinkers from any wood-burning device including home heat stoves, wood cookstoves, fireplaces and inserts, as well as barbecues and outdoor camp fires. What makes a clinker dangerous is when the ash contents are stirred or removed for disposal, open air can ignite the clinkers and any combustibles which are nearby. The improper storage of wood ash clinkers has been responsible for many unexpected fires.
Portland cement clinker-overview. Portland cement clinker is a dark grey nodular material made by heating ground limestone and clay at a temperature of about 1400 °C - 1500 °C. The nodules are ground up to a fine powder to produce cement, with a small amount of gypsum added to control the setting properties. This page gives a thumbnail sketch. Portland cement clinker contains four principal minerals: 1  Alite: approximately tricalcium silicate (typically about 65% of the total). 2  Belite: approximately dicalcium silicate (typically about 15% of the total). 3  Aluminate: very approximately tricalcium aluminate (typically about 7
clinker. n. 1. (Metallurgy) the ash and partially fused residues from a coal-fired furnace or fire. 2. (Building) Also called: clinker brick a hard brick used as a paving stone. Noun. 1. clinker-a fragment of incombustible matter left after a wood or coal or charcoal fire. cinder. fragment-a piece broken off or cut off of something else; a fragment of rock.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A clinker is the ash produced by burning coal. when you clean out a coal burning stove or furnace, they make a clinking sound when they bump together. So when the old Father says he found a clinker, he means whomever was supposed to clean out the furnace hasn't done their job! 
Definition of CLINKER. 1. : a brick that has been burned too much in the kiln. 2. : stony matter fused together: slag. 
Gypsum is added to clinker primarily as an additive preventing the flash settings of the cement, but it is also very effective to facilitate the grinding of clinker by preventing agglomeration and coating of the powder at the surface of balls and mill wall. Cement manufacturers purchasing clinker usually grind it as an addition to their own clinker at their cement plants. Manufacturers also ship clinker to grinding plants in areas where cement-making raw materials are not available.
Clinker consists of various calcium silicates including alite and belite. Tricalcium aluminate and calcium aluminoferrite are other common components. These components are often generated in situ by heating various clays and limestone. Cement manufacturers purchasing clinker usually grind it as an addition to their own clinker at their cement plants. Manufacturers also ship clinker to grinding plants in areas where cement-making raw materials are not available.
6. (Metallurgy) (intr) to form clinker during burning. [C17: from Dutch klinker a type of brick, from obsolete klinckaerd, literally: something that clinks (referring to the sound produced when one was struck), from klinken to clink 1 ]. Noun. 1. clinker-a fragment of incombustible matter left after a wood or coal or charcoal fire. cinder. fragment-a piece broken off or cut off of something else; a fragment of rock.
A clinker brick is one which was discarded because it was discolored or distorted. In the 1920s, leaders of the Arts and Crafts design movement rediscovered its possibilities for creative and dramatic architectural detailing. 
Clinker may refer to: 1  Clinker (boat building) , construction method for wooden boats. 2  Clinker (waste) , waste from industrial processes. 3  Clinker (cement) , a kilned then quenched cement product. 4  Clinker brick, rough dark coloured bricks. 5  Clinker Peak, a volcanic peak in British Columbia, Canada. 