Artificial skin. Artificial skin is a synthetic (laboratory produced) substitute for human skin that can dramatically save the lives of severely burned patients. Skin, composed of two layers called epidermis (the outer layer) and dermis (the inner layer), is the largest human organ. 
The artificial skin is put on shortly after the burn patient is treated at a hospital. About a month later, the doctors use a tweezer to peel off the plastic covering and replace it with a layer of epidermal cells, those that constitute the outer portion of normal skin. Artificial skin made from cowhide, shark cartilage and plastic has been successfully used by doctors at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston to replace skin destroyed by burns, the doctors reported yesterday.
The term was used in the late 1970s and early 1980s to describe a new treatment for massive burns. It was later discovered that treatment of deep skin wounds in adult animals and humans with this scaffold induces regeneration of the dermis. Australian researchers are currently searching for a new, innovative way to produce artificial skin. This would produce artificial skin quicker, and in a more efficient way. The skin produced would only be 1 millimeter thick and would only be used to rebuild the epidermis.
Artificial skin offers hope to burn victims August 28, 1997 Web posted at: 4:34 a.m. EDT (0834 GMT) From Correspondent Joan MacFarlane DETROIT (CNN) -- Just a few months ago, 10-year-old Louis was in critical condition with burns on more than 40 percent of his body. Artificial skin offers hope to burn victims. From Correspondent Joan MacFarlane.
Background. Skin, the human body's largest organ, protects the body from disease and physical damage, and helps to regulate body temperature. It is composed of two major layers, the epidermis and the dermis. The epidermis, or outer, layer is composed primarily of cells: keratinocytes, melanocytes, and langerhans. The dermis, composed primarily of connective tissue fibers such as collagen, supplies nourishment to the epidermis.
Artificial skin. Artificial skin is a synthetic (laboratory produced) substitute for human skin that can dramatically save the lives of severely burned patients. Skin, composed of two layers called epidermis (the outer layer) and dermis (the inner layer), is the largest human organ. Burke and Yannas then created a kind of artificial skin using polymers from shark cartilage and collagen from cowhide. This mixture was dried and sterilized to make a thin membrane (a covering through which things can pass) similar to the human dermis layer.
Artificial skin refers to a collagen scaffold that induces regeneration of skin in mammals. Australian researchers are currently searching for a new, innovative way to produce artificial skin. This would produce artificial skin quicker, and in a more efficient way. The skin produced would only be 1 millimeter thick and would only be used to rebuild the epidermis.
New forms of artificial skin have been tested for use on patients with skin disorders, chronic wounds, and certain forms of cancer. Synthetic skin is also being used as a human tissue substitute for laboratory animals in product research. Burke and Yannas then created a kind of artificial skin using polymers from shark cartilage and collagen from cowhide. This mixture was dried and sterilized to make a thin membrane (a covering through which things can pass) similar to the human dermis layer.