In humans, the haploid cells have 23 chromosomes, versus the 46 in the diploid cells. There is a difference between haploid and monoploid cells. Haploid cells have one complete set of chromosomes, whereas the term monoploid refers to the number of unique chromosomes in a biological cell. Haploid cells are cells that contain only one complete set of chromosomes. The most common type of haploid cells is gametes, or sex cells. Haploid cells are produced by meiosis. They are genetically diverse cells that are used in sexual reproduction.
Since each gamete has only one set of chromosomes, the end resulting zygote will have only two sets of chromosomes. That is the zygote becomes diploid. If the gametes were not haploid cells, the result at the end would be a zygote with four sets of chromosomes. • Diploid cells are genetically identical to the parent cell, and haploid cells are not genetically identical to the parent cell. • Haploid cells are important in sexual reproduction, and diploid cells are important in growth, asexual reproduction and genetic stability.
During the process of meiosis diploid cells produce haploid cells.  There are two types of haploid cells ovum (eggs) and sperm, these  cells are called gametes. 9 people found this useful. Edit. 
In meiosis, DNA replication is followed by two rounds of cell division to produce four daughter cells each with half the number of chromosomes as the original parent cell. The two meiotic divisions are known as meiosis I and meiosis II. Meiosis /maɪˈoʊsɨs/ is a specialized type of cell division which reduces the chromosome number by half. This process occurs in all sexually reproducing single-celled and multi-celled eukaryotes, including animals, plants, and fungi.
Diploid cells contain two complete sets (2n) of chromosomes. Haploid cells have half the number of chromosomes (n) as diploid-i.e. a haploid cell contains only one complete set of chromosomes. Cell Division and Growth. Diploid cells reproduce by mitosis making daughter cells that are exact replicas. When the male and female gametes fuse during fertilization and zygote formation, the chromosome number is restored to 2n again. Thus, diploid cells are those which contain a complete set (or 2n number) of chromosomes whereas haploid cells are those that have half the number of chromosomes (or n) in the nucleus.
There are two types of cells in the body-haploid cells and diploid cells. The difference between haploid and diploid cells is related to the number of chromosomes that the cell contains. When the male and female gametes fuse during fertilization and zygote formation, the chromosome number is restored to 2n again. Thus, diploid cells are those which contain a complete set (or 2n number) of chromosomes whereas haploid cells are those that have half the number of chromosomes (or n) in the nucleus.
Haploid cells are produced by meiosis. During meiosis, the chromosome number is halved from the diploid number to the haploid number. Similar to mitosis, in meiosis also, DNA replication takes place in the parent cell during the interphase. After this, two cycles of nuclear divisions and cell divisions take place. • Diploid cells are genetically identical to the parent cell, and haploid cells are not genetically identical to the parent cell. • Haploid cells are important in sexual reproduction, and diploid cells are important in growth, asexual reproduction and genetic stability.
Meiosis produces haploid gametes with one set of 23 chromosomes. When two gametes (an egg and a sperm) fuse, the resulting zygote is once again diploid, with the mother and father each contributing 23 chromosomes. Meiosis /maɪˈoʊsɨs/ is a specialized type of cell division which reduces the chromosome number by half. This process occurs in all sexually reproducing single-celled and multi-celled eukaryotes, including animals, plants, and fungi.
• Haploid cells are produced by meiosis, and diploid cells are produced by mitosis. • Diploid cells have the same number of chromosomes as the parent cell, and haploid cells have only a half of the number of chromosomes as the parent cell. • Diploid cells are genetically identical to the parent cell, and haploid cells are not genetically identical to the parent cell. • Haploid cells are important in sexual reproduction, and diploid cells are important in growth, asexual reproduction and genetic stability.