On average, you should look for approximately 100 Btu per square inch of primary cooking space. Generally, the larger the grill, the more Btu are required to reach a similar temperature. wildflower · 4 years ago. Answers. Best Answer: As a good friend in the heavy equipment business used to tell me, you can do a little job with a big bulldozer but you can't do a big job with a little bulldozer! I would say anything you are going to use on a regular basis shouldn't be much smaller than 40,000 btu's or so.
BTU (British Thermal Unit) is the traditional unit of energy. The heat value of fuels and the heating power of gas grills can be expressed in terms of BTU. It can be defined as the amount of heat energy needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit at a constant pressure of 1 atmosphere. This unit of measurement helps us to compare the heat content of different types of fuel.
Summer kicks off the grilling season in many parts of North America, and while a gas grill is a home appliance of sorts, it's nowhere as easy to purchase as a toaster or a blender. On the one hand, you could spend as little as $68 for this two-burner gas grill at Walmart (with in-store pickup, a low by $107).
But there are some magic numbers to look for. For a standard gas grill, look for about 80 to 100 BTUs per square inch, and 60 to 80 for an infrared grill like the Char-Broil TRU-Infrared Commercial 2-Burner Gas Grill ($215.20 with in-store pickup, a low by $54), which uses radiant heat. Once again, this supposes that the grill you buy is efficient and well made. On the one hand, you could spend as little as $68 for this two-burner gas grill at Walmart (with in-store pickup, a low by $107).
How many BTU do you need? The rule was once 100 Btu per square inch of main cooking area. This rule no longer applies because modern gas grills are now becoming more and more efficient at holding heat. One thing you should know is that the temperature a gas grill can attain is not influence by the BTU rating alone. It can be defined as the amount of heat energy needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit at a constant pressure of 1 atmosphere. This unit of measurement helps us to compare the heat content of different types of fuel.
For a standard gas grill, look for about 80 to 100 BTUs per square inch, and 60 to 80 for an infrared grill like the Char-Broil TRU-Infrared Commercial 2-Burner Gas Grill ($215.20 with in-store pickup, a low by $54), which uses radiant heat. Once again, this supposes that the grill you buy is efficient and well made. Something as basic as a grill cover will protect your investment from the elements, and a solid warranty is your best protection against heartbreak at the height of grilling season. As for a sweet spot in terms of price, consider spending about $300 to $500, though you can find quality grills for under $250.
How Many BTUs: In the old days, 100 BTUs per square inch was probably on the low side. These days, grills are more efficiently designed and typically don't need as high an output. For a standard gas grill I recommend looking at how the lid fits to the body. If it is a close fit and the components, like the cooking grates, are heavy the grill should heat hot and fat with a BTU rating of 80 to 100 per square inch. For an infrared grill, the same rules apply but the BTUs should be more in the 60 to 80 range. Of course grills are going to be all over the scale but if you look in these ranges you are probably going to find a gas grill that does its job.
The term BTUs will be thrown at you when you begin your grill shopping. Don't panic. The anagram stands for British Thermal Unit and indicates how much heat energy is needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree F. So if you choose a propane grill, propane has about 15,000 BTUs per pound. If you are considering charcoal, think 9,000 BTUs per pound and pellets about 8,500. A 30,000 BTU gas grill emits 30,000 BTUs in one hour, or about two pounds of propane an hour. BTU's do not indicate how quickly a grill will heat up, but can indicate how much fuel you will be using while you cook.
It also contains more cooking energy than natural gas as measured in British Thermal Units (BTU). A BTU is the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water 1°F. There are about 2,500 BTU in one cubic foot of propane and only about 1,000 BTU in one cubic foot of natural gas. Manufacturers tout the number of BTU their grills can produce, but the number can be very misleading