Bentgrass, also known as creeping bentgrass, is a cool-season turfgrass. It's most commonly grown on golf courses in the north because it tolerates frequent mowing and short mowing heights. The following is a list of common disease and pest problems that plague bentgrass: 1  Anthracnose is a fungal disease that can destroy a variety of trees, including Maple and Oak. 2  This disease is likely to occur during periods of cool, wet weather.
Creeping bentgrass (agrostis palustris) was originally cultivated for use on golf course greens. It's main advantage, especially for greens, is that it tolerates extremely close mowing. 
Bentgrass (Agrostis) is a large genus with over 100 species, but only about four are used for turfgrass in the United States. None of these four are well adapted to southern climates. The only use of this species in the South is for golf course putting greens where environments are closely managed. Creeping bentgrass (Agrostis palustris) is a perennial cool season grass that forms a dense mat. The grass spreads by profuse creeping stolons and possesses rather vigorous, shallow roots. Stems (stolons) are decumbent (creeping) and slender and produce long narrow leaves.
Velvet Bentgrass. Velvet bent grass has the finest texture of all the bent grasses and is one of the oldest grasses used for lawns and golf courses in Europe and was brought to the US for use on the earlier putting greens because of the texture and ability to be clipped closely. Creeping Bentgrass. Creeping bent grass is a native of Europe and parts of Asia. It is a cool season grass requiring cool, humid environments. This grass forms a dense mat by creeping stolons and has a shallow root system with long slender leaves. Creeping bent grass is the most popular and most planted of the Bents.
In the north, bentgrass varieties include Toronto, Cohansey, Nimisiila, Congressional and some local blends. Seaside is the oldest bentgrass variety. As the name indicates, it is used in coastal areas and the lawn created is multihued. Pengrass, another variety, is a more consistent producer. It has a high disease resistance and is the most tolerant of foot traffic. 
Creeping Bentgrass. Creeping bentgrass (Agrostis palustris) is a thin-bladed cool season perennial grass that is quite invasive. It spreads into areas of more desirable bluegrass, choking them out. Bentgrass is occasionally used as a lawn grass in states with milder, moister climates, but rarely in cool season area
Augusta National greens, such as this one, are sodded with bentgrass. Rob Carr/Getty Images. Bentgrass is a type of turfgrass used on some golf courses. It is a cool-season grass, and it is often the grass of first choice for putting greens in any climate in which it can be grown.
Bentgrass is actually a family of grasses. In some situations the grass is used for greens on golf courses while the same type of grass growing in another circumstance could be thought of as a invasive weed. The most common bentgrass is creeping bentgrass. Control. While creeping bentgrass is popular on golf courses, it is sometimes considered a weed that invades other grasses in lawns. The grass is not used for lawns because of the necessity of frequent close mowing and high fertilization requirements.