Introduction. The Gallipoli Campaign of 1915-16, also known as the Battle of Gallipoli or the Dardanelles Campaign, was an unsuccessful attempt by the Allied Powers to control the sea route from Europe to Russia during World War I. 
On April 24th, 1915, an amphibious force of British, French, Australian, and New Zealand troops began landing on the Turkish peninsula of Gallipoli. Their aim, to knock Germany's ally, Turkey, out of the war. 
Gallipoli is found in the European part of Turkey with the Aegan Sea to the west. Winston Churchill explained it as The soft underbelly of Europe. Gallipoli is located in the Eastern part of Turkey, with the Aegean sea to the West and the Darndenelle straits to the East. 
The Gallipoli Campaign, also known as the Dardanelles Campaign, the Battle of Gallipoli or the Battle of Çanakkale (çanakkale: Çanakkale Canakkale), çanakkale savaşı was a Campaign Of World war i that took place On the (Gallipoli peninsula gelibolu In) modern turkey In The ottoman empire Between 25 april 1915 And 9. january 1916 
The Gallipoli Campaign (Battle of Gallipoli) was one of the Allies great disasters in World War One. It was carried out between 25th April 1915 and 9th January 1916 on the Gallipoli peninsula in the Ottoman Empire.
A view of the Dardanelles from a ship. The Gallipoli peninsula (/ɡəˈlɪpɵli/ ; Turkish: Gelibolu Yarımadası; Greek: καλλίπολη) is located in Turkish Thrace (or East Thrace), the European part of Turkey, with the Aegean Sea to the west and the Dardanelles strait to the east. Map of ancient Gallipoli. In ancient times, the Gallipoli Peninsula was known as the Thracian Chersonesus (from Greek χερσόνησος, peninsula) to the Greeks and later the Romans. It was the location of several prominent towns, including Cardia, Pactya, Callipolis (Gallipoli), Alopeconnesus, Sestos, Madytos, and Elaeus.
Battle of Gallipoli was a combat between the Central powers and Allied Powers and during this battle Gallipoli peninsula became the center of bloody war. Central powers were Germany, Ottoman Empire (modern Turkey), Hungary, Bulgaria; Allied Powers were Russia, France, Australia, USA, United Kingdom and Germany. Battle of Gallipoli. Gallipoli is a peninsula which is located in northwest coast of Turkey between Gulf of Saros and Dardanelles. This battle took place in the year 1915 and it was fought during World War I (1914-1918).
The name Gallipoli is a western corruption of ‘Gelibolu’, a town on the peninsula on the north (European) side of the Dardanelles Straits, some 300 KM west of Istanbul in Turkey. Zoom in or out of the map above to get your bearings. 
Gallipoli. Gallipoli (Turkish: Gelibolu) is a peninsula locality in north-western Turkey, close to Istanbul. The Gallipoli Peninsula is the site of extensive First World War battlefields and memorials on the north bank of the Dardanelles Strait. It is a commemorative site for the Allied (British Empire, France) and Turkish forces who fought, died and were wounded there.