abacus-Computer Definition. One of the earliest counting instruments. Similar devices predate the Greek and Roman days. It uses sliding beads in columns that are divided in two by a center bar. The top is heaven, where each of two beads is worth 5 when moved to the center bar. noun. An example of an abacus used for arithmatic. An example of an abacus used for arithmatic. The definition of an abacus is a simple device you can use to make manual mathematical calculations by sliding counters along rows of wires set inside a frame. An example of an abacus is a child’s bead counting toy
History of Abacus: Abacus is a Latin word that has its origins in the Greek words abax or abakon (meaning “table” or “tablet”) which in turn, possibly originated from the Semitic word abq, meaning “sand” 1. 
abacus noun [C]. › a ​square or ​rectangular ​frame ​holding an ​arrangement of ​small ​balls on ​metal ​rods or ​wires, used for ​counting or for doing ​calculations. (Definition of abacus from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations. abacus noun [C]. › a ​frame that ​holds ​thin ​metal ​rods with ​balls that ​slide on them, used for ​counting, ​adding, and subtracting. (Definition of abacus from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary
An abacus has beads that slide on rods. It can be used to count, add, subtract, multiply and more. The most common abacus is split into two basic rows: 1  the top row for the 5s, and. 2  the bottom row for the ones. 
Part of the Peripherals glossary: An abacus is a manual aid to calculating that consists of beads or disks that can be moved up and down on a series of sticks or strings within a usually wooden frame. The abacus itself doesn't calculate; it's simply a device for helping a human being to calculate by remembering what has been counted. 
Full Definition of ABACUS. 1. : an instrument for performing calculations by sliding counters along rods or in grooves. 2. : a slab that forms the uppermost member or division of the capital of a column. See abacus defined for English-language learners. See abacus defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of ABACUS for Kids. : an instrument for doing arithmetic by sliding counters along rods or in grooves.
abacus. On a Chinese abacus, the columns of beads go from right to left and represent ones, tens, hundreds, thousands, and so on. The beads above the crossbar have a value of five; the beads below the crossbar have a value of one. The beads are totaled when moved down or up toward the crossbar. 
What is Abacus? Abacus is an instrument that was invented some 2500 years ago primarily in China, which later on spread through countries like Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia etc. 