Let’s talk about what the right net height should be, how to measure it, and some tips to make it as accurate as possible. Here are the right measurements for the net height: The men’s height should be 7 feet, 11 5/8 inches from the floor to the top of the net. The women’s height is 7 feet 4 inches from the floor. Come see these volleyball drills and learn how to improve your team. If you happen to be playing on a co-ed league, co-ed leagues usually are played at the men’s height. It would be too much of an advantage for the men to play on the women’s net height. At each end of the net, there is an antenna.
A recent rule change also allows the ball to hit the net on the serve. If the ball hits the net and goes over on the serve and it hits the other team’s floor, it results in a point. The volleyball net height is an important aspect of the game. Come see these volleyball drills and learn how to improve your team. If you happen to be playing on a co-ed league, co-ed leagues usually are played at the men’s height. It would be too much of an advantage for the men to play on the women’s net height. At each end of the net, there is an antenna.
Answers. Best Answer: The pole height is not specific, but it is usually around 8 ft. The net should be tightened top and bottom to adjust to the appropriate height. It is the height of the net, not the pole, that matters. The net heights are listed here along with other specs: http://www.vbref.org/ref/courtspecs.html. 
Tetherball is a North American game for two opposing players. The equipment consists of a stationary metal pole, from which is hung a volleyball from a rope or tether. The two players stand on opposite sides of the pole. Each player tries to hit the ball one way; one clockwise, and one counterclockwise. Tetherballs usually have a bar recessed in the top that the rope is tied to. Some simply have loops that protrude out, but this is less common as striking the loop with the hand can be painful. The pole is often 10 feet (3.0 m) high, and can be as low as 7 feet (2.1 m) high depending upon the height of the players.
Pole Height. The net poles themselves are traditionally 2.55 meters in height. However, USA Volleyball varies the height of the net on the age and gender of the players involved. The official height is measured at the center of the court. USA Volleyball is the association charged with setting standards of play, which includes regulating court sizes and net height for all levels. The net itself, which is 1 meter from top to bottom and 10 meters long, separates the two halves of the volleyball court.
In volleyball, two teams compete to pass the ball over a net while preventing the ball from landing on their half of the court. USA Volleyball is the association charged with setting standards of play, which includes regulating court sizes and net height for all levels. The net itself, which is 1 meter from top to bottom and 10 meters long, separates the two halves of the volleyball court.