Toyot's Solara Convertible narrowly averted the production ax last summer, but the mid-size drop top won't be so lucky this convertible season. Thanks to a sharp market decline, Toyota has decided to cease production of the Solara Convertible. 
It will very likely be the platform for the new Lexus convertible in 2015. The refinement, power, and luxury levels of the RC 350C convertible will be so far from the Scion FR-S convertible at that point there would really be very little cross shopping between the two. That could be what Toyota is waiting for. Another concern for Toyota about bringing the Scion FR-S Convertible to the US market is power. Although an excellent sports car, as an on-the-road car the Scion FR-S is underpowered already. Adding weight (as most convertibles do) will only make that more pronounced.
If Toyota is concerned that the Scion FR-S convertible may be too close for comfort to the Lexus, it may only require a year of waiting to solve that. Toyota this same week showed the world the RC 350 sports coupe. The two-door IS 350-based sports coupe has significantly raised the panache of the IS line. That could be what Toyota is waiting for. Another concern for Toyota about bringing the Scion FR-S Convertible to the US market is power. Although an excellent sports car, as an on-the-road car the Scion FR-S is underpowered already. Adding weight (as most convertibles do) will only make that more pronounced.
Prior to the production of the Camry Solara, the 2-door version of the Toyota Camry was simply known as the Camry Coupe. Coupé it was added to the third Generation camry lineup in 1993 for model year 1994 to compete with The Honda accord and other cars in its. class The first generation Camry Solara went on sale in the third quarter of 1998 as a 1999 model to replace the Camry Coupe. It was based on the mechanical platform of the previous generation Toyota Camry and was built at the TMMC facilities in Cambridge, Ontario, Canada.
Toyota shows gorgeous convertible Scion FR-S at Tokyo auto show. Toyota has a Scion FR-S convertible it could sell now in the US market, but as we explain, Toyota has some good reasons not to. Subscribe to TorqueNewsVideo on Youtube. Toyota unleashed a wild group of prototype and concept cars at the Tokyo auto show, but none had more impact than the future Scion FR-S Convertible. That could be what Toyota is waiting for. Another concern for Toyota about bringing the Scion FR-S Convertible to the US market is power. Although an excellent sports car, as an on-the-road car the Scion FR-S is underpowered already. Adding weight (as most convertibles do) will only make that more pronounced.
About Toyota Solara. The Toyota Solara is a sporty midsize coupe/convertible that is based on the Japanese automaker's famous Camry sedan. It premiered for the 1999 model year equipped with either a 2.2L four-cylinder engine capable of 135 horsepower or a 3.0L V6 with the ability to produce 192 horsepower
The Toyota Camry Solara, also more commonly known as the Toyota Solara, is a mid-size coupe / convertible designed and engineered by Toyota. The first generation Camry Solara went on sale in the third quarter of 1998 as a 1999 model to replace the Camry Coupe. It was based on the mechanical platform of the previous generation Toyota Camry and was built at the TMMC facilities in Cambridge, Ontario, Canada.
However, all models of the Camry Solara only feature the Solara portion of the name on exterior emblems, and the Camry portion of the name is rarely used when referring to the car in general. The first generation Camry Solara went on sale in the third quarter of 1998 as a 1999 model to replace the Camry Coupe. It was based on the mechanical platform of the previous generation Toyota Camry and was built at the TMMC facilities in Cambridge, Ontario, Canada.
The Toyota Camry Solara is also the first vehicle in the Toyota lineup, after their 1997 partnership agreement to feature a JBL premium stereo option, which all models came with a single-slot in-dash CD player and cassette deck. The first generation Camry Solara went on sale in the third quarter of 1998 as a 1999 model to replace the Camry Coupe. It was based on the mechanical platform of the previous generation Toyota Camry and was built at the TMMC facilities in Cambridge, Ontario, Canada.