Edsel Bryant Ford, the only child of Henry Ford and his wife Clara, was born November 6, 1893, in Detroit, Michigan. A decade after Edsel’s birth, Henry Ford (1863-1947) established the Ford Motor Company; five years later, he introduced the Model T, an affordable car for the masses. His father then resumed the presidency of the company. Edsel’s oldest son, Henry Ford II, succeeded his grandfather as head of Ford in 1945. In the 1950s, the Ford company launched the Edsel car division, named for its second president.
Marketing research and development for the new intermediate line had begun in 1955 under the code name E car, which stood for experimental car.. Ford Motor Company eventually decided on the name Edsel, in honor of Edsel B. Ford, son of the company's founder, Henry Ford (despite objections from Henry Ford II). Ford Motor Company had conducted the right marketing study, but it came up with the wrong product to fill the gap between Ford and Mercury. By 1958, buyers had become fascinated with economy cars, and a large car like the Edsel was seen as too expensive to buy and own.
At the heart of any big flop–like when Ford ended the Edsel 55 years ago, on Nov. 19, 1959–lies high expectations. The Edsel was named after Henry Ford’s son, no small honor, and it had its own division of the company devoted to its creation. As TIME reported in 1957 when the car debuted, the company had spent 10 years and $250 million on planning one of its first brand-new cars in decades. 
Condensed from several articles in 1989, by Edsel owner Ron Osborn. Drawings by Harry Bradley. I have prepared a short story on the life of Edsel Ford. As most of us know, Edsel died in May, 1943, so it seemed fitting to honor the man on the 46th anniversary of his death, who's car and club are named after him.
Edsel Ford was born in Detroit, Michigan, US, as the only child of Clara and Henry Ford, being named for Edsel Ruddiman, one of Henry Ford's closest childhood friends. Edsel was groomed to take over the family automobile business, and grew up tinkering on cars with his father. Edsel worked closely with his father, as sole heir to the business, but was keen to develop cars more exciting than the Model T (Tin Lizzie), in line with his personal tastes. Even as president, he had trouble persuading the older man to allow any departure from this formula.
The name of the car, Edsel, is also often cited as a further reason for its unpopularity. Naming the vehicle after Edsel Ford was proposed early in its development, however the Ford family strongly opposed its use, Henry Ford II stating that he didn't want his father's good name spinning around on thousands of hubcaps. The Edsel was a make of automobile manufactured by the Ford Motor Company during the 1958, 1959, and 1960 model years. The car brand is best known as one of the most spectacular failures in the history of the United States automobile industry.
That car became the Edsel, named after Henry Ford's son. At first known only as the E car, the Edsel was given a significant amount of publicity from Ford for its launch in September of 1957, and even had its own television special to help market the new car to the buying public. 
Edsel Bryant Ford (November 6, 1893 – May 26, 1943) was the only son of Henry Ford and president of Ford Motor Company from 1919 to his death in 1943. His eldest son was Henry Ford II. Edsel worked closely with his father, as sole heir to the business, but was keen to develop cars more exciting than the Model T (Tin Lizzie), in line with his personal tastes. Even as president, he had trouble persuading the older man to allow any departure from this formula.
The Edsel was an automobile marque that was planned, developed, and manufactured by the Ford Motor Company during the 1958, 1959, and 1960 model years. Ford Motor Company had conducted the right marketing study, but it came up with the wrong product to fill the gap between Ford and Mercury. By 1958, buyers had become fascinated with economy cars, and a large car like the Edsel was seen as too expensive to buy and own.
Edsel was the only child of Henry and Clara Ford. After his death, Henry Ford returned to his former position as president of Ford Motor Company. Today, Edsel's legacy lives on in his contributions to the design of Lincoln cars and his generous backing of art in Detroit. 