Very rarely, statins can cause life-threatening muscle damage called rhabdomyolysis (rab-doe-mi-OL-ih-sis). Rhabdomyolysis can cause severe muscle pain, liver damage, kidney failure and death. Rhabdomyolysis can occur when you take statins in combination with certain drugs or if you take a high dose of statins. Liver damage Occasionally, statin use could cause your liver to increase its production of enzymes that help you digest food, drinks and medications. If the increase is only mild, you can continue to take the drug. Muscle pain and damage The most common statin side effect is muscle pain. You may feel this pain as a soreness, tiredness or weakness in your muscles. The pain can be a mild discomfort, or it can be severe enough to make your daily activities difficult.
This increase in liver enzymes usually does not cause any symptoms, making an early diagnosis of liver damage from Lipitor exceedingly difficult. When they do occur, symptoms may include: 1  Nausea or vomiting. 2  Abdominal pain (stomach pain). 3  Passing brown or dark-colored urine. 
Your doctor can monitor you for them. These side effects usually go away if your dose is lowered or if LIPITOR is stopped. These serious side effects include: 1  Muscle problems. 2  LIPITOR can cause serious muscle problems that can lead to kidney problems, including kidney failure. 3  You have a higher chance for muscle problems if you are taking certain other medicines with LIPITOR. 4  Liver problems
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Lipitor can be hard on the liver and carries a slight risk of causing liver damage. This is why it is not often prescribed to people with a history of liver disease or elevated liver enzyme counts. This is also why having more than two alcoholic beverages a day is not recommended while on Lipitor, as the combination of the medication and alcohol, which stresses the liver, can damage the organ.
Lipitor and High Liver Enzymes. Doctors measure liver enzymes to see if a person has liver damage; however, liver enzymes alone do not measure how well the liver is working. Warnings and Precautions With Lipitor. Because Lipitor can affect the liver, it should be used with caution in people who drink more than a moderate amount of alcohol or who have a history of liver disease. Doctors do not normally recommend this medication for people with liver disease or high liver enzymes.
Two rare, but potentially serious, side effects that can occur are liver and muscle damage, with symptoms of nausea, upper right abdominal pain and jaundice -- yellowing of the skin and eyes -- or muscle pain and weakness. Damage to the liver by statin drugs causes an increased release of liver enzymes into the circulation, most commonly the enzymes aspartate aminotransferase or alanine aminotransferase, according to Drs.
Lipitor and Liver Damage. Tweet. |. Lipitor (atorvastatin) is a cholesterol-lowering statin created by Pfizer that has been linked to liver damage, elevated liver enzyme levels, liver failure, and death. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warned about the risk of liver damage in 2009 and again in 2012
Among the numerous Lipitor side effects, the damage that this cholesterol drug is capable of producing in your liver is among the most serious to your overall health and longevity. Definitely a risk that shouldn't be taken lightly. 
If your liver enzymes are high, your doctor may continue to test them on a more frequent basis. If they remain high, your doctor may recommend lowering the dose of Lipitor or switching to another cholesterol medication. Warnings and Precautions With Lipitor. Because Lipitor can affect the liver, it should be used with caution in people who drink more than a moderate amount of alcohol or who have a history of liver disease. Doctors do not normally recommend this medication for people with liver disease or high liver enzymes.