Compared to solid stock on a board-foot basis, hardwood plywood definitely is more expensive. Limited selection. Because dealers stock what's in demand, your supplier may only have three or four types of hardwood plywood, such as the popular oaks, birch, and mahogany.
It has a similar appearance to Birch Plywood. The HD guy at the construction desk claimed it was stainable and a good material for cabinets. The finish looks better than the Birch Ply I am use to seeing. The 1/2' is 7 ply and I believe the 3/4 is 9 ply. The price is very reasonable, about what good MDF costs.
The birch ply is a closed grain like maple or cherry. The Sande ply is open grain like oak or mahogany. This will affect the appearance. More importantly is the quality of the plywood. Some of the Chinese junk at the Home Depot has delaminating plys inside, a paper thin outer veneer, and warping due to improper drying.
The regular Birch plywood they carry in and around Atlanta runs something like $44 a sheet and has more plies compared to what I am gettings. At $25 a sheet I would expect that. I think the Birch ply will still have advantages over the Sandeply though. I know the $25 Birch is never there long.
Smooth plywood is made with a more natural-looking wood veneer, disguising what the plywood really is, namely a heavily processed laminate made from glue and wood chips.
Sandeply Problems. I made the mistake of trying to saver $4 over birch plywood & I used Sandeply instead. The label info looked impressive, stating that both sides had the same finish (with no knots)& that is was a hardwood that is excellent for cabinet work.
We keep large inventories of imported plywood such as Sande Ply, Feather Ply and some meranti. Sande Ply and Feather Ply are products that come from the tropical areas of South America.
Less cost, more benefit. What really makes PureBond special is that it’s cost-competitive with the standard UF construction of most decorative veneer-core hardwood plywood that’s made today. That means PureBond is substantially less expensive than many other no-added-formaldehyde alternatives currently available.