Inflammatory bowel disease: A group of chronic intestinal diseases characterized by inflammation of the bowel -- the large or small intestine. The most common types of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease. Crohn disease favors the ileum (the lower part of the small intestine) but can occur anywhere along the intestinal tract while, by contrast, ulcerative colitis affects the colon (the large intestine) alone. The inflammation in Crohn disease involves the entire thickness of the bowel wall, whereas in ulcerative colitis the inflammation is confined to the mucosa (the inner lining) of the intestine. The symptoms of IBD include abdominal pain and diarrhea.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) involves chronic inflammation of all or part of your digestive tract. IBD primarily includes ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. Both usually involve severe diarrhea, pain, fatigue and weight loss. IBD can be debilitating and sometimes leads to life-threatening complications. Ulcerative colitis (UL-sur-uh-tiv koe-LIE-tis) is an inflammatory bowel disease that causes long-lasting inflammation and sores (ulcers) in the innermost lining of your large intestine (colon) and rectum.
1 The inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). 2  The intestinal complications of Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis differ because of the characteristically dissimilar behaviors of the intestinal inflammation in these two diseases. Intestinal bowel disease facts. 1 
Classification [edit]. The chief types of inflammatory bowel disease are Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (UC). Inflammatory bowel diseases fall into the class of autoimmune diseases, in which the body's own immune system attacks elements of the digestive system. There is evidence of an infectious contribution to inflammatory bowel disease in some patients and this subgroup of patients may benefit from antibiotic therapy. Anaemia is a common finding in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
Overview. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is not a single condition. It is the term for a group of disorders that cause prolonged inflammation of the digestive tract. The digestive tract is composed of the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine. The two most common are ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. Crohn’s disease can cause inflammation in any part of the digestive tract. However, it mostly affects the tail end of the small intestine. Ulcerative colitis is inflammation of the
1 Intestinal inflammation in Crohn's disease involves the entire thickness of the bowel wall, whereas the inflammation in ulcerative colitis is confined to the inner lining. 2  Accordingly, complications such as intestinal strictures, fistulas, and fissures are far more common in Crohn's disease than in ulcerative colitis. Intestinal bowel disease facts. 1  The inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC).
For more information about this message, please visit this page: About CDC.gov. Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is a broad term that describes conditions with chronic or recurring immune response and inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract. The two most common inflammatory bowel diseases are ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. Inflammation affects the entire digestive tract in Crohn’s disease and only the large intestine in ulcerative colitis. Both illnesses are characterized by an abnormal response to the body’s immune system. 
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of inflammatory conditions of the colon and small intestine. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are the principal types of inflammatory bowel disease. There is evidence of an infectious contribution to inflammatory bowel disease in some patients and this subgroup of patients may benefit from antibiotic therapy. Anaemia is a common finding in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
Crohn’s disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) belong to a group of conditions known as inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). IBD also includes indeterminate colitis (IC), a term used when it is not clear if inflammation is due to Crohn’s or colitis, constituting about 15% of all cases. 
1 Intestinal ulceration and bleeding are complications of severe mucosal inflammation in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. 2  Intestinal inflammation in Crohn's disease involves the entire thickness of the bowel wall, whereas the inflammation in ulcerative colitis is confined to the inner lining. Intestinal bowel disease facts. 1  The inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) are Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC).