About RA. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that causes pain, swelling, and stiffness in the joints. In some people, it can also cause the joints to become damaged and deformed. Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). A disease in which the immune system attacks the linings of the joints. This results in joint pain, stiffness, swelling, and destruction. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases). Part of: Arthritis, Autoimmune Disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Inflammation. Redness, swelling, pain, and/or a feeling of heat in an area of the body. This is a protective reaction to injury, disease, or irritation of the tissues.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease that affects the joints. It causes pain, swelling, and stiffness. If one knee or hand has rheumatoid arthritis, usually the other does too. This disease often occurs in more than one joint and can affect any joint in the body. A rheumatologist is a doctor who helps people with problems in the joints, bones, and muscles. Rheumatoid arthritis can be hard to diagnose because: 1  There is no single test for the disease. 2  The symptoms can be the same as other kinds of joint disease. 3  The full symptoms can take time to develop.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes premature mortality, disability and compromised quality of life in the industrialized and developing world (1). Rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic inflammatory disease which manifests itself in multiple joints of the body. 
Share +. Text A A A. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease where the body's immune system attacks normal joint tissues, causing inflammation of the joint lining. This inflammation of the joint lining (called the synovium) can cause pain, stiffness, swelling, warmth, and redness. Symptoms of Rheumatoid Arthritis. Although RA is often a chronic disease, the severity and duration of symptoms may unpredictably come and go. With RA, people experience periods of increased disease activity, called flare-ups or flares, alternating with periods when the symptoms fade or disappear, called remission.
1 Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that can cause chronic inflammation of the joints and other areas of the body. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and signs include. 3  joint pain in the feet, hands, and knees, 4  swollen joints, 5  fever, 6  tender joints, 7  loss of joint function, 1 Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease characterized by periods of disease flares and remissions. 2  In rheumatoid arthritis, multiple joints are usually, but not always, affected in a symmetrical pattern. 3  Chronic inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis can cause permanent joint destruction and deformity.
Rheumatoid Arthritis Symptoms. Along with joint inflammation and pain, many people experience fatigue, loss of appetite and a low-grade fever. Because RA is a systemic disease, it may also affect organs and body systems.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren’t perfectyou can test negative for RA factors and still have it. 
Arthritis means joint inflammation. The joint inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis causes swelling, pain, stiffness, and redness in the joints. The inflammation of rheumatoid disease can also occur in tissues around the joints, such as the tendons, ligaments, and muscles. 1 Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic disease characterized by periods of disease flares and remissions. 2  In rheumatoid arthritis, multiple joints are usually, but not always, affected in a symmetrical pattern. 3  Chronic inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis can cause permanent joint destruction and deformity.