Why liability coverage from your homeowners and auto policy may not be enough. Homeowners insurance provides a minimum of $100,000 liability coverage (the coverage that protects you when people are injured or property is damaged due to circumstances in which you or your family are responsible).
Ask your insurance agent about your homeowners policy coverage and what other policies you will need for protection. If you have a septic tank on your property, check with your insurance agent to make sure septic tank runoff protection is part of your homeowner's policy.
Travelers boat insurance not only covers boats under 26 feet, it is also one of the few programs to provide coverage for antique and classic runabout boats. Travelers yacht insurance, which covers boats 26 feet or longer, provides even more comprehensive coverage and options.
Boat insurance can also protect you if you injure someone with your boat or damage their property. Boat liability coverage provides protection for legal liability because of an accident resulting from the ownership, maintenance, or use of your watercraft, including bodily injury, property damage, and legal defense.
Watercraft insurance coverages go beyond the scope of a standard homeowners policy to include Roadside Assistance, which covers towing of your boat or personal watercraft for free, as long as your trailer is covered; On-Water Towing, in case you're stranded on the water; and Uninsured Boaters coverage.
1 Homeowners insurance may not provide enough coverage for your boat. 2  In some ways, boat insurance is a mash-up of home and auto insurance. 3  Your boat policy does not apply when the boat is out of the water.
Even if your boat is eligible for watercraft insurance coverage under your homeowners policy, you still may want specialized coverages that you just can't get with a standard homeowners policy.
A Progressive boat and personal watercraft insurance (watercraft insurance) policy provides boaters with specialized coverage designed for your boat or personal watercraft. Insurance options range from personal effects replacement to fuel spill coverage, which means you can relax on the water knowing you're protected.
But if you're buying a $10,000 or $20,000 boat, your homeowners policy is not going to cover you for what you need.. Lynne McChristian, the Florida representative for the Insurance Information Institute, says boats are unique and require their own policy.