The other main function is that of defense in the immune system. Lymph is very similar to blood plasma: it contains lymphocytes and other white blood cells. It also contains waste products and debris of cells together with bacteria and protein. Lymphocytes are concentrated in the lymph nodes. The spleen and the thymus are also lymphoid organs of the immune system. The tonsils are lymphoid organs that are also associated with the digestive system.
1 The thymus gland is the main organ of the lymphatic system. 2  Its primary function is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T-lymphocytes. 3  Once mature, these cells leave the thymus and are transported via blood vessels to the lymph nodes and spleen. 1 The spleen is the largest organ of the lymphatic system. 2  Its primary function is to filter blood of damaged cells, cellular debris, and pathogens. 3  Like the thymus, the spleen houses and aids in the maturation of lymphocytes. 4  Lymphocytes destroy pathogens and dead cells in the blood.
1 Its primary function is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T-lymphocytes. 2  Once mature, these cells leave the thymus and are transported via blood vessels to the lymph nodes and spleen. 1 The spleen is the largest organ of the lymphatic system. 2  Its primary function is to filter blood of damaged cells, cellular debris, and pathogens. 3  Like the thymus, the spleen houses and aids in the maturation of lymphocytes. 4  Lymphocytes destroy pathogens and dead cells in the blood.
1 Thymus. 2  The thymus gland is the main organ of the lymphatic system. 3  Its primary function is to promote the development of specific cells of the immune system called T-lymphocytes. 4  Once mature, these cells leave the thymus and are transported via blood vessels to the lymph nodes and spleen. 1 The spleen is the largest organ of the lymphatic system. 2  Its primary function is to filter blood of damaged cells, cellular debris, and pathogens. 3  Like the thymus, the spleen houses and aids in the maturation of lymphocytes. 4  Lymphocytes destroy pathogens and dead cells in the blood.
1 Lymphatic vessels transport lymph to lymph nodes. 2  These structures filter lymph of pathogens, such as bacteria and viruses. 3  Lymph nodes also filter cellular waste, dead cells, and cancerous cells. 4  Lymph nodes house immune cells called lymphocytes. 1 The spleen is the largest organ of the lymphatic system. 2  Its primary function is to filter blood of damaged cells, cellular debris, and pathogens. 3  Like the thymus, the spleen houses and aids in the maturation of lymphocytes. 4  Lymphocytes destroy pathogens and dead cells in the blood.
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph vessels, lymph nodes, and organs. The functions of this system include the absorbtion of excess fluid and its return to the blood stream, absorption of fat (in the villi of the small intestine) and the immune system function. Lymph vessels are closely associated with the circulatory system vessels. Larger lymph vessels are similar to veins. The immune system is the major component of this defense. Lymphocytes, monocytes, lymph organs, and lymph vessels make up the system. The immune system is able to distinguish self from non-self. Antigens are chemicals on the surface of a cell.
The lymphatic system is basically a channel that carries a clear or whitish fluid called the lymph. This lymph aids in clearing the tissues of infective organisms, toxins etc. The basic structure and functions of the lymphatic system can be broken into the lymph channels. Functions of the lymphatic system include (3): 1  Drainage of fluid from blood stream into the tissues – The circulating blood through narrow vessels leads to leakage of fluid or plasma into the tissues carrying oxygen and nutrients to the tissues and carrying waste materials from the tissues
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries.
Lymph Node Function. Lymph nodes serve two major functions in the body. They filter lymph and assist the immune system in building an immune response. Lymph is a clear fluid that comes from blood plasma that exits blood vessels at capillary beds. This fluid becomes the interstitial fluid that surrounds cells. Lymphoma is the term used for cancer that begins in the lymphatic system. This type of cancer originates in the lymphocytes that inhabit lymph nodes and lymph tissues. Lymphomas are grouped into two main types: Hodgkin's lymphoma and Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) .
The primary structures of the lymphatic and immune systems in the lower extremities are the lymph vessels. The large bones of the leg are also important, as these contain bone marrow that produces a large number of lymphocytes.\\n\\nThe lymphatic system works closely with the immune system. Lymph Nodes. Lymph nodes are small, kidney-shaped organs of the lymphatic system. There are several hundred lymph nodes found mostly throughout the thorax and abdomen of the body with the highest concentrations in the axillary (armpit) and inguinal (groin) regions.