In conclusion, the executive membership is worth it for the first year as long as you remember to get cash back if your reward is less than $50 ($55 for 2012.) You will see how much money you spend at Costco in one year and you can adjust to the cheaper program or continue with the executive membership as you see fit. The price of membership is going up in 2012 to $55 and $110, respectively. In 2011, we signed up for the executive membership because Costco promised that if we don’t get at least $50 reward, then they will make up the differences. We just received the 2% reward recently and our reward was $26.
Executive membership is the highest level a consumer can join. The cost is $110 per year. Executive members will receive in addition to access to the warehouse stores, a 2% reward on nearly all purchases made at Costco. 1 Costco’s TrueEarnings Card (recommended) – If you are a Costco member, you can sign up for the TrueEarnings American Express Card and American Express will waive the annual membership fee (you still have to pay the Costco membership fee).
Costco just announced that they are raising their annual membership fee 10% in the US and Canada as of November 1st, 2011. This makes the Gold Star and Business memberships $55 and the Executive membership $110 per year. The maximum 2% cashback reward that comes with Executive Membership will increase from $500 to $750. The last price hike was in 2006, so the membership fee has actually been rising less than inflation. Assuming based on the operating margins that Costco prices are 3% cheaper than Wal-mart, you’d have to spend $1,833 a year (about $150 a month) at Costco instead of Wal-mart to pay for the $55 membership fee.
In sum, the answer to the question of whether or not a Costco executive membership is worth the extra $55 a year seems to be yes -- at least from the perspective of many customers. Assuming you spend roughly $3,000 or more a year at the chain's locations, then upgrading will be to your financial advantage. If you spend more than $250 a month at Costco, then its executive membership is for you.
Best Answer: It allows you to have 2 cards with the gold membership, here is the info from there site/ Gold Star Membership at Costco Wholesale allows you to purchase products for personal use at any Costco throughout the world. One additional card is also provided for a member of your household at no additional charge. Your Gold Star Membership is valid for one year at any Costco Wholesale worldwide, and at costco.com. All memberships must be renewed annually. 
Of course, what you really ought to try to do is earn at least $100 a year in rebates (via $5,000 total spending per year, or $417 a month) so that what way, your entire Costco membership can be obtained for free, rather than just a reimbursement of the additional Executive Membership portion. For example, let's say that after you upgrade to Executive Membership, you discover that you shop at Costco less than you initially thought, and ultimately fail to meet the break even threshold of $2,500 a year (the point at which the 2% cash back Executive level rebates pay for the extra cost of membership itself).
As of May 2015, membership fees in the U.S. at Costco are $55 per year for a Gold Star (individual) or Business membership, which can be upgraded to Executive membership for an additional $55 per year. 
The answer is: It depends. The primary benefit of an executive membership is that, once a year, Costco will reimburse you for 2% of the amount you spent at the warehouse chain over the past 12 months. Thus, the issue boils down to whether or not the potential savings will more than offset the added $55. In most cases, it will. If you spend more than $250 a month at Costco, then its executive membership is for you.
The Costco Executive Membership costs you $100 per year, but you get 2% back on purchases. But like James said, they guarantee you $50 minimum in cash back. Also, it is a Costco cash check they send you, but you can take it to any Costco cashier and they will cash it out for you. 1 Costco’s TrueEarnings Card (recommended) – If you are a Costco member, you can sign up for the TrueEarnings American Express Card and American Express will waive the annual membership fee (you still have to pay the Costco membership fee).
There are two kinds of membership. The Goldstar membership costs $50 per year and you get the privilege of shopping at Costco. The Executive membership costs $100 and you get 2% reward on most purchases in addition. The price of membership is going up in 2012 to $55 and $110, respectively. In 2011, we signed up for the executive membership because Costco promised that if we don’t get at least $50 reward, then they will make up the differences. We just received the 2% reward recently and our reward was $26.