Lettuce. Lettuce is a fairly hardy, cool-weather vegetable that thrives when the average daily temperature is between 60 and 70°F. It should be planted in early spring or late summer. At high temperatures, growth is stunted, the leaves may be bitter and the seedstalk forms and elongates rapidly. Tipburn is a physiological condition that causes lettuce to die back at the edges of the leaves. It results from a change in the moisture relationship between the soil and the plant. Clip off any brown leaf tissue and use the remainder of the leaf.
Where to grow Lettuce. Lettuce can be grown practically anywhere. Lettuce it is a cool-season vegetable, with an ideal temperature of 50-60 degrees. It does poorly in hot weather, and is tolerant to some frost and light freezes. The leafy types mature quickly and are more suited for warm climates. 
Lettuce (Lactuca sativa) is an annual plant of the daisy family Asteraceae. It is most often grown as a leaf vegetable, but sometimes for its stem and seeds. Lactuca sativa is a member of the Lactuca (lettuce) genus and the Asteraceae (sunflower or aster) family. The species was first described in 1753 by Carl Linnaeus in the second volume of his Species Plantarum. Synonyms for L. sativa include Lactuca scariola var.
Today, the majority of lettuce is grown for its leaves, although one type is grown for its stem and one for its seeds, which are made into an oil. Most lettuce is used in salads, either alone or with other greens, vegetables, meats and cheeses. Romaine lettuce is often used for Caesar salads, with a dressing that includes anchovies and eggs. Lettuce leaves can also be found in soups, sandwiches and wraps, while the stems are eaten both raw and cooked. Lactuca sativa is a member of the Lactuca (lettuce) genus and the Asteraceae (sunflower or aster) family. The species was first described in 1753 by Carl Linnaeus in the second volume of his Species Plantarum. Synonyms for L. sativa include Lactuca scariola var.
Yes, lettuce does have fruits but the part of the lettuce that we consume is the leaves. However, for the fruit of the lettuce plant to be classified a citrus fruit, it must h … ave citric acid. Since it does not, it is not a citrus fruit. A vegetable is any edible part of a plant, and can include roots, tubers, stems, leaves, flowers, and fruits. A fruit is the part of a seed-bearing plant that contains the s … eeds. Foods like tomatoes, peppers, squash, cucumbers, and so forth, are vegetables that are also fruits. + 97 others found this useful.
Lettuce is one of our very oldest vegetables. It is native to the Mediterranean and Near East. It was grown in China in the fifth century. Lettuce was grown in royal gardens of Persian Kings (Iran) over 2000 years ago. Leaf lettuce can be planted in the spring when the soil is dry enough to be worked. They can be planted two or more times every 10-14 days. Lettuce is a cool season vegetable. It cannot stand warm temperatures. Do your last planting of lettuce about 30 days before the hot days of early summer.
Lettuce nutrition facts. Lettuce is one of poular green leafy-vegetables. Its crispy, green/crimson-red leaves are one of the incredible sources of essential nutrients that benefit health. Indeed, it is among the most sought-after greens, be it in your crunchy green salads or healthy sandwiches!