About Jasper-History and Introduction. Jasper is one of the many gemstone varieties of quartz available today. It is an opaque and impure variety of silicon dioxide (SiO2). The name 'jasper' is derived from the Greek word for 'spotted stone', referring to its typical multicolored, striped, spotted or flamed appearance. Jasper can form in virtually any color
Notes: Jasper is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Jasper is treasurer. Common nicknames for the name Jasper include Jasp, Jazz, and Jas. Jasper is a form of Casper. It is also the name of a semi-precious stone and one of the Three Magi in the Christian Bible. Jasper Johns was a famous artist and Jasper Packard was a 19th century U.S. representative from the state of Indiana.
Red Jasper. Jasper's name means speckled or spotted stone and the word jasper has roots in many similar words in old languages-for example the Akkadian yashupu. However, it comes not only speckled-it can also exhibit bright bands or other patterns in a wide variety of colors. Jasper. Jasper is a type of chalcedony. It can occur in many different colors such as red, green, yellow or rarely, blue. It has been prized since ancient times. Chalcedony is a form of quartz-so jasper is mainly quartz, with mineral impurities dictating the colors of the stone.
Jasper outcrop, Bucegi Mountains, Romania. Jasper, an aggregate of microquartz and/or chalcedony and other mineral phases, is an opaque, impure variety of silica, usually red, yellow, brown or green in color; and rarely blue. The name means spotted or speckled stone, and is derived via Old French jaspre (variant of Anglo-Norman jaspe) and Latin iaspidem (nom. iaspis)) from Greek ἴασπις iaspis, (feminine noun) from an oriental language (cf. Hebrew יושפה yushphah, Akkadian yashupu).
Document status: incomplete. Jasper is the name of dense and opaque varieties of microcrystalline quartz. Jasper is not really a mineral in the strict sense, but a mixture of different types of microcrystalline quartz with impurities of other minerals, and is called a textural variety of quartz. 
Jasper Facts, Information and Description. Jasper is one of the birth stones listed for the Sun Sign of Virgo. It is also the Mystical birthstone for the month of October. See the birthstone tables for additional references to this stone. Jasper is an opaque and fine grained variety of Chalcedony
Jasper is an opaque form of Chalcedony, which is a microcrystalline variety of the mineral Quartz. It often contains an abundance of impurities, and therefore some regard it as a rock instead of a mineral. Hexagonal. Crystal Forms and Aggregates. Jasper is a microcrystalline form of the mineral Quartz, and does not occur in visible crystals. It most often is in massive form, but may also be botryoidal, mammilary, and stalactitic formations, as smooth rounded pebbles, and as nodules.
Jasper is usually considered as Chalcedony; sometimes, however, scientists put it in a group by itself within the quartz group because of its grainy structure. The name jasper is derived from the Greek and means spotted stone. The finely grained, dense jasper contains up to 20 percent foreign materials, which determine its colour, streak, and appearance.