The vertebral arteries can be variable in diameter. They should always demonstrate antegrade flow (toward the brain) and be low resistance similar to the ICA. Arrows indicate normal flow direction in the extra cerebrovascular circulation. Arrows indicate the flow direction in a right sided subclavian steal syndrome. VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 1  Return to a longitudinal plane of the CCA and angle the beam postero-laterally to visualise the vertebral artery. 2  Ensure suitable PRF and gain for these smaller, deeper vessels. 3  Confirm the flow is antegrade i.e. towards the head - (normal) or retrograde (suggesting subclavian steal syndrome).
OBJECTIVES: To determine the incidence of antegrade internal carotid artery collateral flow in patients with common carotid artery occlusion, which artery supplies blood to the internal carotid artery, and whether the flow affects regional cerebral blood flow in the middle cerebral artery territory. The regional cerebral blood flow ipsilateral to the occlusion at rest was higher in patients with common carotid artery occlusion than those with internal carotid artery occlusion (mean ± SD, 40.4 ± 8.5 versus 34.3 ± 6.2 mL/100 g/min; P = .02).
Dear 414, thank you for the information, The blood flow in the vertebral arteries is patent means that the blood is flowing well and there is no stenosis or blockage in vertebral arteries. The blood flow is anterograde is the normal flow and you need not worry. Let me know if you have any doubt. thank you! 
Antegrade means “in the direction of normal flow,” in urological terms. With no other context, it just means “forward.” Retrograde means the opposite – “against the direction of normal flow,” or simply “backwards.”. It’s an “antegrade urethrogram,” which you’ll know by now means a picture of the urethra when urine is flowing the normal way. Of course that’s exactly what a voiding cystourethrogram is doing. But they needed another name so it wouldn’t – you know – be confusing.
Objectives— To determine the incidence of antegrade internal carotid artery collateral flow in patients with common carotid artery occlusion, which artery supplies blood to the internal carotid artery, and whether the flow affects regional cerebral blood flow in the middle cerebral artery territory. Conclusions— Antegrade collateral internal carotid artery flow was found in 60% of patients with common carotid artery occlusion and was mainly supplied by retrograde external carotid artery flow. It contributes to maintenance of middle cerebral artery territory regional cerebral blood flow. 1  carotid sonograph
RESULTS: Six (60%) of the 10 patients with common carotid artery occlusion had antegrade internal carotid artery collateral flow, which was supplied through the carotid bifurcation from retrograde flow of the external carotid artery in 5 and by a small artery directly into the internal carotid artery in 1. The regional cerebral blood flow ipsilateral to the occlusion at rest was higher in patients with common carotid artery occlusion than those with internal carotid artery occlusion (mean ± SD, 40.4 ± 8.5 versus 34.3 ± 6.2 mL/100 g/min; P = .02).
Antegrade internal carotid artery collateral flow and cerebral blood flow in patients with common carotid artery occlusion. Nakamura A(1), Wakugawa Y, Yasaka M, Ogata T, Yasumori K, Kitazono T, Okada Y. The regional cerebral blood flow ipsilateral to the occlusion at rest was higher in patients with common carotid artery occlusion than those with internal carotid artery occlusion (mean ± SD, 40.4 ± 8.5 versus 34.3 ± 6.2 mL/100 g/min; P = .02).
CONCLUSIONS: Antegrade collateral internal carotid artery flow was found in 60% of patients with common carotid artery occlusion and was mainly supplied by retrograde external carotid artery flow. It contributes to maintenance of middle cerebral artery territory regional cerebral blood flow. The regional cerebral blood flow ipsilateral to the occlusion at rest was higher in patients with common carotid artery occlusion than those with internal carotid artery occlusion (mean ± SD, 40.4 ± 8.5 versus 34.3 ± 6.2 mL/100 g/min; P = .02).