Origin and meaning of Shalane. 5 5. The meaning of Shalane is  Combination of the prefix sha-and the name Lane . Its origin is  Modern English . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 14,689th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Shalane is a combination of the popular prefix sha-and the English surname Lane, which was originally used to denote a person who lived near a lane or a path. 
Compare To: See the name popularity of Shalane since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. View Shalane popularity trends, and how the popularity of Shalane has changed over time. All of our U.S. data comes from the Social Security Administration, which provides year popularity data for all names that have more than 5 occurences by gender.
Meaning of the name Shalane, analysis of the name Shalane and so much more… What does Shalane mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Shalane. 2  The Meaning Of The Name Shalane. People admire and support you even if they don’t understand you. Here is the characteristics of Shalane in details. A Few Testimonials In all of the research that I have done on my name and the meaning behind it, I have never found more accurate, insightful, and informative details anywhere else!
Shalane is a rare given name for women. Shalane is also a unique last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed analysis of the usage of Shalane and associated names. Popular variation forms of Shalane (not ranked) appearing in the Top 1000 are Shakira, Shalonda, Shameka, Shamika, Shanell, Shanice, Shanika, Shanita, Shantel, Sharon (#879 last year) and Shawna. Forms like Sharay are uncommon. Shalane /sha-lane/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of American origin. Shalane is an alternate form of Sha- (American).
Shalana is a rare surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the girl name Shalana and corresponding names. Shakira, Shalonda, Shameka, Shamika, Shanika, Shanita, Sharon (#879 last year) and Shawna are the prominent alternative forms of Shalana (not ranked) . Forms like Sharina are uncommon.
Shalane is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Sha-lane. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Shalane Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Shalane has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Shalane to other names.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Shalane in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Shalane in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Shalane Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Shalane has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Shalane to other names.