That’s the equivalent of just 25g, or six teaspoons, a day. Currently in the UK the average person gets around 16-17 per cent of their calories from sugar, compared to 11-15 per cent in the US and 7-8 per cent in Hungary and Norway.
take the number of calories you consume daily, and take 20% of this number (the amount of fat calories per day you need). in your case, you should consume 360 fat calori … es. one gram of fat is equal to 9 fat calories, so divide the 360 grams of fat by nine, to give you 40 grams of dat per day.
That's about 25g (around six teaspoons) for an adult of normal weight every day. To put this in context a typical can of fizzy drink contains about nine teaspoons of sugar. The limits would apply to all sugars added to food, as well as sugar naturally present in honey, syrups, fruit juices and fruit concentrates.
Currently, Western European adults consume an average of 101 grams of sugar per day, while in South America the figure rises to 130 grams. Sugar represents around 16-17% of an adult’s daily energy intake in the United Kingdom and Spain.
For example, the World Health Organization recommends keeping added sugar intake to 10% of total calories. For the average 2000 calorie-diet that's a maximum of 50 grams. The American Heart Association recommends 6 teaspoons of sugar for women and 9 for men (1 teaspoon of sugar has about 4g of sugar).
The World Health Organisation suggests that adults should eat no more than 50 grams of sugar (12 teaspoons) per day to avoid the risks of obesity and tooth decay. The UN body even advises that limiting ourselves to 25 grams – or 5% of our daily energy intake – would provide “additional health benefits.”.
By comparison, most women should be getting no more than 6 teaspoons a day, or 100 calories, of added sugar — the sweeteners and syrups that are added to foods during processing, preparation or at the table. For most men, the recommended limit is 9 teaspoons, or 150 calories, the heart group says.
The average American eats about 22 teaspoons of added sugar every day. This adds up to over 70 pounds of sugar a year. Even worse, American teens are eating closer to 34 teaspoons a day. The result on our bodies is less than sweet.