Lead poisoning is a serious and sometimes fatal condition. It occurs when lead builds up in the body. Lead is a highly toxic metal and a very strong poison. It is found in lead-based paints, including paint on the walls of old houses and toys. A high, toxic dose of lead poisoning may result in emergency symptoms. These include: 1  severe abdominal pain and cramping. 2  vomiting. 3  muscle weakness.
What is lead poisoning? Lead poisoning occurs when you absorb too much lead by breathing or swallowing a substance with lead in it, such as paint, dust, water, or food. Lead can damage almost every organ system. In children, too much lead in the body can cause lasting problems with growth and development. Lead poisoning is usually caused by months or years of exposure to small amounts of lead at home, work, or day care. It can also happen very quickly with exposure to a large amount of lead. Many things can contain or be contaminated with lead: paint, air, water, soil, food, and manufactured goods.
Lead poisoning (also known as plumbism, colica pictorum, saturnism, Devon colic, or painter's colic) is a type of metal poisoning and a medical condition in humans and other vertebrates caused by increased levels of the heavy metal lead in the body. The Centers for Disease Control (US) has set the standard elevated blood lead level for adults to be 10 µg/dl of the whole blood. For children the number is set much lower at 5 µg/dl of blood as of 2012 down from a previous 10 µg/dl. Children are especially prone to the health effects of lead.
Lead is a heavy metal that is toxic to the human body. Lead poisoning can result from placing lead objects in your mouth, placing fingers in your mouth after handling lead, or from breathing dust that contains lead. Since lead poisoning can cause permanent complications, the best treatment for lead poisoning is prevention. If lead is ingested, bowel irrigation or gastric lavage (stomach pumping) may be considered to help clear the gut. Chelation therapy may be needed to bind and remove lead from the body.
Lead poisoning often develops gradually as lead accumulates in the body as a result of multiple exposures. Lead exposure and poisoning is especially concerning in infants and children, as it can affect their developing nervous systems and interfere with mental development. Since lead poisoning can cause permanent complications, the best treatment for lead poisoning is prevention. If lead is ingested, bowel irrigation or gastric lavage (stomach pumping) may be considered to help clear the gut. Chelation therapy may be needed to bind and remove lead from the body.
Because lead poisoning can be gradual, its symptoms may not be obvious. Symptoms can include slowed growth, behavioral problems, problems in school, developmental delay, abdominal pain, constipation, headache, sleep disorders, decreased appetite, fatigue, decreased sensation, and hearing problems. Since lead poisoning can cause permanent complications, the best treatment for lead poisoning is prevention. If lead is ingested, bowel irrigation or gastric lavage (stomach pumping) may be considered to help clear the gut. Chelation therapy may be needed to bind and remove lead from the body.
Lead poisoning occurs when a person swallows, absorbs, or inhales lead in any form. The result can be damaging to the brain, nerves, and many other parts of the body. 
Definition. Lead poisoning occurs when lead builds up in the body, often over a period of months or years. Even small amounts of lead can cause serious health problems. Children under the age of 6 are especially vulnerable to lead poisoning, which can severely affect mental and physical development. At very high levels, lead poisoning can be fatal