adsorption. Process in which a gas, liquid, or solid adheres to the surface of a solid or (less frequently) a liquid but does not penetrate it, such as in adsorption of gases by activated carbon (charcoal). In comparison, a gas or liquid taken-in during absorption penetrates or mixes with the absorbent. Defini
Adsorption is the process whereby molecules are concentrated on the surface of the activated carbon. 
Adsorption on the move. The process by which a solid surface concentrates fluid molecules by physical forces is known as adsorption (whereas, absorption is a process whereby fluid molecules are taken up by a liquid and distributed throughout that liquid).
Definition of ADSORPTION. : the adhesion in an extremely thin layer of molecules (as of gases, solutes, or liquids) to the surfaces of solid bodies or liquids with which they are in contact — compare absorption. — ad·sorp·tive \-ˈsȯrp-tiv, -ˈzȯrp-\ adjective. See adsorption defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Adsorption Definition. Adsorption is defined as the adhesion of a chemical species onto the surface of particles. German physicist Heinrich Kayser coined the term adsorption in 1881. Adsorption is a different process from absorption, in which a substance diffuses into a liquid or solid to form a solution. In adsorption, the gas or liquid particles bind to the solid or liquid surface that is termed the adsorbent. The particles form an atomic or molecular adsorbate film. Isotherms are used to describe adsorption because temperature has a significant effect on the process. Adsorption is a surface phenomenon in which particles or molecules bind to the top layer of a material. Absorption, on the other hand, goes deeper, involving the entire volume of the absorbent. Absorption is the filling of pores or holes in a substance.
The process of adsorption arises due to presence of unbalanced or residual forces at the surface of liquid or solid phase. These unbalanced residual forces have tendency to attract and retain the molecular species with which it comes in contact with the surface. Adsorption is essentially a surface phenomenon. 
Increase in the concentration of a substance at the interface of a condensed and a liquid or gaseous layer owing to the operation of surface forces. Note 1: Adsorption of proteins is of great importance when a material is in contact with blood or body fluids. Similar to surface tension, adsorption is a consequence of surface energy. In a bulk material, all the bonding requirements (be they ionic, covalent, or metallic) of the constituent atoms of the material are filled by other atoms in the material.
Desorption is a phenomenon whereby a substance is released from or through a surface. The process is the opposite of sorption (that is, either adsorption or absorption). This occurs in a system being in the state of sorption equilibrium between bulk phase (fluid, i.e. gas or liquid solution) and an adsorbing surface (solid or boundary separating two fluids). 
Adsorption is the adhesion of atoms, ions, or molecules from a gas, liquid, or dissolved solid to a surface. This process creates a film of the adsorbate on the surface of the adsorbent. This process differs from absorption, in which a fluid (the absorbate) permeates or is dissolved by a liquid or solid (the absorbent). Adsorption is a surface-based process while absorption involves the whole volume of the material. Similar to surface tension, adsorption is a consequence of surface energy. In a bulk material, all the bonding requirements (be they ionic, covalent, or metallic) of the constituent atoms of the material are filled by other atoms in
Diffen › Science › Chemistry. Absorption is the process in which a fluid is dissolved by a liquid or a solid (absorbent). Adsorption is the process in which atoms, ions or molecules from a substance (it could be gas, liquid or dissolved solid) adhere to a surface of the adsorbent. Adsorption is a surface-based process where a film of adsorbate is created on the surface while absorption involves the entire volume of the absorbing substance