Here are some things to consider when deciding if your child is old enough to be home alone without a sitter: 1  Generally speaking, a child must ne 12 years of age or older before you are legally permitted to leave him home alone for any period of time. 1 Generally speaking, a child must ne 12 years of age or older before you are legally permitted to leave him home alone for any period of time. 2  In some states and municipalities this may be different, and before you even consider doing so, check with your local law enforcement agency to know the laws.
A parent who leaves a child home alone before he is ready may face charges of neglect in Pennsylvania. Although Pennsylvania doesn't have a set minimum age at which it's legal for children to be left home alone, a parent is still responsible for knowing when her child may be safely left home without supervision. A young babysitter must be able to handle the responsibility of the child as well. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision.
Legal age for kids home alone. Some states have laws governing what age you can legally leave them home, ranging from age 8 all the way to age 14. Check out the list here to see the specific laws in your state. Most states, however, do not have laws, leaving the decision up to the parent. After taking into account their child's maturity, many parents think you can leave kids home alone for short periods of time starting at age eight or nine.
Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone. 8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods)
Georgia’s Guidelines for leaving a child without adult supervision: 1  Children under 8 years old should never be left alone, even for short periods of time. 2  Children between the ages of 9 and 12, based on level of maturity, can be left home alone for brief periods of time. 1
Please watch your kids. The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous. These states do not set a specific age after which a child legally can stay home alone but do provide recommendations. I have to say that I am surprised by the lack of official age restrictions in most states. And for the states that do, there is a very wide range of ages: 8-14.
The law on leaving your child on their own. The law doesn’t say an age when you can leave a child on their own, but it’s an offence to leave a child alone if it places them at risk. Use your judgement on how mature your child is before you decide to leave them alone, eg at home or in a car. 
There’s no one law in Australia that says at what age you can or can’t leave your child home alone. In Queensland if you leave a child under 12 years of age for an ‘unreasonable time’ without supervision you have committed a misdemeanour. However, the legislation also says that whether the time is unreasonable depends on all the relevant circumstances. You’re the best judge of when your child is ready to be left at home alone. It’s not just about your child’s age – her maturity is also important. You might feel confident leaving a 12-year-old who’s very responsible, but quite worried about a 15-year-old who takes a lot of risks.