Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a health condition that causes pain, swelling, stiffness, and loss of function in the joints. Conventional medical treatments are highly effective for RA; however, researchers are also studying complementary health approaches as possible additions to RA treatments.
1 Experts say fish oil, which contains omega-3s, can help treat rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, and other inflammatory conditions. 2  Studies have found that omega-3s can help people with rheumatoid arthritis lower their doses of corticosteroids or NSAIDs.
Fish oil supplements are available as capsules or oils. 1  Clinical trials on RA have found that fish oil supplements may help to relieve tender joints and morning stiffness. 2  Studies have also found that fish oil may reduce the need for NSAIDs and other conventional RA medicines.
1 Antioxidants protect cells from free radicals which damage cells. 2  Vitamin E is important for healthy immune function. 3  Vitamin E is found in avocados, egg yolk, nuts, wheat germ, whole grains, and peanut butter. 4  Because vitamin E is stored in the body large doses can lead to toxicity.
1 Folate (Folic Acid/ Vitamin B9) is not stored in the body so it is important to get a daily dose. 2  Folate deficiency can cause anemia, weight loss, loss of appetite, and diarrhea. 3  Folic acid is used to manufacture red blood cells. 4  It can be found in leafy green vegetables such as spinach and turnips greens.
1 Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin. 2  It is found naturally in some foods and is an antioxidant. 3  Antioxidants protect cells from free radicals which damage cells. 4  Vitamin E is important for healthy immune function. 5  Vitamin E is found in avocados, egg yolk, nuts, wheat germ, whole grains, and peanut butter.
5 Replies. The most commonly deficient vitamins for people dealing with rheumatoid arthritis are vitamin C, vitamin B6, folate (vitamin B9), vitamin D, vitamin B12 and vitamin E. It is preferable to get these vitamins in your diet however if that is not possible then supplements can be used.
So with her doctor’s blessing, she took a very low-dose steroid and turned to herbs and supplements, including boswellia (Indian frankincense) and fish oil, to help relieve the pain and inflammation. A year later, her diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis was confirmed.
Vitamin E. Vitamin E is found in foods like nuts, soy product, egg yolk and avocado to name a few. It is an important antioxidant which will help in making sure that you will be able to remove free radicals from the different cells in your body.