Reticulates python from Southeast Asia and is the longest snake in the world. Although they are not venomous, but they are dangerous animals. Their power is enough to kill an adult male. Reticulated Python. 2. Green Anaconda 8.5 meter / 28 inches. Green anaconda from South America. Green Anaconda is the second longest snake in the world. Green anaconda is the largest snake in the world. Green Anaconda. 3. Indian python (7.6 meter / 25 inch). India Molurus Python or Python or python Black tail comes from south Asia and Southeast Asia. 5. King Cobra (5.8 inches meters/19). King Cobra is a venomous snake and one of the longest in the world. Although the snake is slimmer than Boa, King cobras have a strong poison that can kill quickly Boa. King Cobra has a neurotoxic poison in high doses.
They are the world's longest snakes and longest reptiles, but are not the most heavily built. Like all pythons, they are nonvenomous constrictors and normally not considered dangerous to humans. Although large specimens are powerful enough to kill an adult human, attacks are only occasionally reported. 
Growing up to 30 feet long, the reticulated python (Python reticulatus) of southeastern Asia and the East Indies is the longest snake in the world. These giants have an average weight of 250 pounds, but the largest known specimen in existence weighs in at a whopping 350 pounds. While there are several contenders for the title of world's largest snake, here are three of the biggest and longest snakes known to man: Weighing in at 550 pounds, the aptly named giant anaconda (Eunectes murinus) is the largest snake in the world considering its length-to-weight ratio.
When. The longest snake-ever (captivity) is Medusa, a reticulated python (python reticulatus), and is owned by Full Moon Productions Inc. in Kansas City, Missouri, USA. When measured on 12 October 2011, she was found to be 7.67 m (25 ft 2 in) long. Medusa also holds the current 'Longest Snake-Living (captivity)' title. It’s the longest snake ever in captivity. Medusa, a reticulated python, clocked in at 7.67 meters (25 feet, 2 inches) long in its official world record measurement, on October 12, 2011.
The previous longest specimen recorded by Guinness World Records-which was also a reticulated python-came in at 32ft when it was captured in 1912. Both snakes were found in Indonesia and are native to the swamps and jungles of South-East Asia. 
Reticulated python Medusa, has just new Guinness World Records 2013 book for being the longest snake ever to live in captivity. Medusa's primary diet consists of a combination of rabbits, hogs and deer, served to her every two weeks. At 24ft long she held the record for longest snake living in captivity until she died at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium in Powell, Ohio, in October 2010.
If you want to know the record holder for the longest snake in the world, then you're in the right place. The longest snake in the world which was confirmed by the Guinness Book of World Records was called Fluffy from Columbus Zoo, Ohio, the longest snake in captivity, at 24ft (7.3m) and 300 pounds. It is a type of gigantic reticulated python
PUBLISHED. This reticulated python is one of six born to a virgin mother at the Louisville Zoo. Photograph by Kyle Shepherd, Louisville Zoo Virgin birth has been documented in the world's longest snake for the first time, a recent study says. An 11-year-old reticulated python named Thelma produced six female offspring in June 2012 at the Louisville Zoo in Kentucky, where she lives with another female python, Louise. 