Full Definition of TRAVESTY. 1. : a burlesque translation or literary or artistic imitation usually grotesquely incongruous in style, treatment, or subject matter. 2. See travesty defined for English-language learners. obsolete English travesty disguised, parodied, from French travesti, past participle of travestir to disguise, from Italian travestire, from tra-across (from Latin trans-) + vestire to dress, from Latin — more at vest. First Known Use: 1674.
It is a travesty and a tragedy that so many people would be denied the right to vote. The investigation into the causes of the accident was a complete travesty. [= sham ]. The trial was a travesty of justice. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 
&raquo more... Earthly providence is a travesty of justice on any other theory than that it is a preliminary stage, which is to be followed by rectifications. Either there must be a future, or consummate injustice sits upon the throne of the universe. This is the verdict of humanity in all the ages
Antonyms: copy, accuracy. Tips: Travesty is derived from the French travesti, which means dressed in a disguise.. Travesty has come to mean mockery or sham.. Travesty of justice is a common saying in Modern English and refers to a mockery of justice. 
A travesty is an absurd or grotesque misrepresentation, a parody, or grossly inferior imitation. 
noun. verb. The definition of a travesty is an imitation that is grossly incorrect. An example of travesty is a production of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet that makes the play look meaningless. Travesty is defined as to ridicule or make a parody of something. An example of travesty is to create a film that makes all romantic comedies look silly. 
trav•es•ty. 1. a grotesque or debased likeness or imitation of something: a travesty of justice. 2. a literary or artistic burlesque of a serious work or subject, characterized by grotesque or ludicrous incongruity. 3. to burlesque; mock. n. pl. trav·es·ties. 1. A debased or grotesque likeness: elections that were a travesty of democracy. 2. An exaggerated or grotesque imitation, such as a parody of a literary work. tr.v. trav·es·tied, trav·es·ty·ing, trav·es·ties. To make a travesty of; parody or ridicule.
Sarah Bernhardt as Hamlet. Travesti (literally disguised) is a theatrical term referring to the portrayal of a character in an opera, play, or ballet by a performer of the opposite sex. Some sources regard 'travesti' as an Italian term, some as French. Depending on sources, the term may be given as travesty, travesti, or en travesti. 