Well the difference between part furnished and furnished, is that quite obviously part furnished doesn't include everything. To describe your house as fully furnished you will need: All necessary furniture (within reason. You don't need to provide a TV unit for example). Furnished would include, Sofas, Beds, Table and chairs, draws and wardrobes etc. You can supply what you like in a furnished property but make sure its on the inventory and be prepared for it to get broken. I wouldn't expect a TV or crockery/cooking items to be listed in a furnished property
- Semi-Furnished. - Fully Furnished. We’ll cover what those terms means, specifically for the Real Estate market in the Philippines, in the way they are commonly used by developers and, as a consequence, by brokers and owners. Bare : The term “bare” describes an apartments where there’s really nothing in it, aside from the main door.
Cleverly furnished apartments usually rent for more than unfurnished ones. If you have an apartment you want to rent to make some residual income each month, furnishing it usually means you can rent it for more than if it's unfinished. However, most people seeking furnished apartments are looking for short-term leases, so your turnover rate is likely to be higher. Think about a security deposit when you're drawing up the lease for your furnished apartment. Renters don't always care for your furniture the way they would care for their own, and you must be able to replace broken or damaged pieces before the next renter moves in.
I'm a new landlord, and really not sure what the definition of furnished/ unfurnished/ part furnished is. I've spoken to a couple of estate agents and they really don't know. What is the min requirement for a Furnished apartment. What is the min requirement for a Unfurnished apartment. As I would like to buy the things now as they are cheap, if I have to buy them when the tenant moves in the prices are most likely to go back up and I would have lost out, I can't store it if they aren't used. 
There are no specific rules or laws as to what fully furnished “means” but a tenant’s expectation and the reality can vary greatly in different areas of the country and even within different niche sectors within the local markets. 
As a property owner, you have the option to rent property as a furnished or unfurnished space. Furnished rentals are often most suitable for short-term leases, geared toward traveling professionals, while unfurnished rentals are geared for longer-leases and a tenant who would prefer to supply his own furniture. Regardless of whether a tenant is paying for a fully furnished, partially furnished or unfurnished space, renter's insurance is a must have. Property owners do not provide renter's insurance; this is something that the tenant must seek out on his own but something that the property owner should mention to the tenant.
by Lisa Bernstein. A furnished apartment contains the things you will need to live comfortably during your stay. Depending on the landlord’s target market, your apartment may come with more than basic furnishings. What’s included is usually determined by your needs and the rental fee. Below is a list of some of the more common things you will find in a furnished apartment. Furnishings. Every furnished apartment comes with furniture. The type and amount of furniture you can expect to find varies depending on who the landlord is catering to. Executive rentals generally provide more upscale furniture, while college-oriented rentals meet the more basic needs of a student.
Best Answer: It means it already has furniture and appliances -- couches, tables, frig, stove, etc. 'Fully' furnished should mean that you could move your clothes, toiletries, TV, and other personal things in and be ready to live without needing to bring in any outside furniture. Some apartments are fully furnished -- it'd be pretty unusual to find a house like that, unless it was for rent & not for purchase. 
Fully Furnished. In a fully furnished unit, all of the amenities are included. Fully furnished rentals mean that there is a bed, mattress, living room furniture, appliances, pots and pans -- essentially all the day-to-day items required to live. Regardless of whether a tenant is paying for a fully furnished, partially furnished or unfurnished space, renter's insurance is a must have. Property owners do not provide renter's insurance; this is something that the tenant must seek out on his own but something that the property owner should mention to the tenant.