Etymology & Historical Origin-Hayley. Hayley is the transferred use of an English surname which is derived from a place name. The surname probably originated from the town of Hailey in Oxfordshire, a county in the southeast region of England. 
[ 2 syll. hay-ley, ha-yl-ey ] The baby girl name Hayley is pronounced as HH EY-Liy- †. Hayley is of Old English origin and it is used largely in the English language. The name is of the meaning 'hay clearing, hay meadow'. It is from heg meaning 'hay' ; leah ' wood, clearing, meadow '. The first name is derived from the surname, which is itself from a place name Hailey in Oxfordshire. 
Meaning of name Hayley. Etymology: From a surname which was originally derived from the name of an English town (meaning hay clearing from Old English heg hay and leah clearing). Saint : Origin: English (Modern)
The given name Hayley (which has many variant spellings) was derived from it. The family name Haley is also a variant spelling of the anglicized Irish Healy (surname) . Haley /ˈheɪli/ is an English surname. It is based on a place name derived from Old English heg hay and leah clearing or meadow,
Hayley /hay-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less commonly as boys' name Hayley) is pronounced HAY-ley. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Hayley is hay meadow. Place name. May possibly be from the Norse word haela, meaning hero. Made famous by actress Hayley Mills in the 1960s. Hayley is a very popular first name for females (#1312 out of 4276, Top 31%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#33380 out of 150436, Top 22%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Hayley for girls.
Origin of the name Hayley: Transferred use of a Northern English surname derived from Hale or Hales (residing in a nook, recess, or remote valley). It has also been suggested that Hayley derives from the place-name Hailey, which is composed of the Old English elements hēg (hay) and lēah (wood, clearing, meadow). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Transferred use of a Northern English surname derived from Hale or Hales (residing in a nook, recess, or remote valley). It has also been suggested that Hayley derives from the place-name Hailey, which is composed of the Old English elements hēg (hay) and lēah (wood, clearing, meadow). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book. Meanings and history of the name Hailey : | Edit. From the English place name and surname Hayley, meaning a hay field. Hailey can also be linked to the Old English word haeeþ hæeþ meaning hero or. warrior
Haley /ha-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less commonly as boys' name Haley) is pronounced HAY-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Haley is hay meadow. Variant of Hailey. The surname listed here as variants came into popular use as girl's names due to actress Hayley Mills. 
Hayleigh, Halley, Haileigh, Hayley, etc.   From a surname which was originally derived from the name of an English town (meaning hay clearing from … Old English heg hay and leah clearing)Clearing in this case meaning 'cleared land for field'. 