(From TV ad for Barry Goldwater's presidential campaign in 1964.). Quotes on Character by the authors of Character Above All RICHARD REEVES: Character is a word that seems to define almost all human activity and then some.... Power is what you do and character is what you are... . RICHARD NIXON (1913-1994). With all the power that a President has, the most important thing to bear in mind is this: You must not give power to a man unless, above everything else, he has character. Character is the most important qualification the President of the United States can have..
In computer and machine-based telecommunications terminology, a character is a unit of information that roughly corresponds to a grapheme, grapheme-like unit, or symbol, such as in an alphabet or syllabary in the written form of a natural language. Computers and communication equipment represent characters using a character encoding that assigns each character to something — an integer quantity represented by a sequence of digits, typically — that can be stored or transmitted through a network.
Leadership is influencing others by your character, humility and example. It is recognizable when others follow in word and deed without obligation or coercion. – Sonny Newman, president, EE Technologies. Leadership is actions committed by a person or group that produce an output or result. 
John F. Kennedy — bold, articulate leader with a great deal of charisma. Richard Nixon — introspective President with a deep knowledge of and interest in foreign policy. Each person who has held the office of President has brought to it a unique style. Each style reflects a President's character. President Bill Clinton was investigated by Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr for his relationship with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky. The Founders' View of Character and the Presidency. When the United States was created, the Founding Fathers probably didn't bank on a President being impeached because of a sex scandal. But they did acknowledge that strength of character (what they called moral and civic virtue) was very important in a leader.
James David Barber James Barber differentiates between four types of presidential character: active-positive; active-negative; passive-positive; and passive-negative. Before voters cast their ballots for president, they should know how active the candidate is and whether or not he or she truly enjoys political life. This allows voters to predict presidential performance before the candidate takes office. James David Barber. Source: Presidential Character and How to Foresee It, chapter 1 of The Presidential Character: Predicting Performance in the White House, 4th ed., by James David Barber, pp. 1-1 1, 493. 1992.
However, the U.S. Constitution limits the President&#39s power to act. Only Congress can pass legislation, and Congress sometimes moves slowly. The President can only approve or veto (reject) legislation that Congress passes. Even then, Congress can override a veto and make it the law. How can voters be sure that a candidate will hold up during those kinds of pressure situations? The short answer is that they can&#39t. Even so, a candidate&#39s character often gives clues as to how the person will react under stress. People disagree about what character traits are most important in a President. But there are some commonly accepted things that people look for, such as integrity, strength, and caring. Experts say that adult experiences can be just as important in shaping a future President
Character is the only secure foundation of the state.. LYNDON JOHNSON (1908-1973). The fact that a man is a newspaper reporter is evidence of some flaw of character.. WOODROW WILSON (1856-1924). If you will think about what you ought to do for other people, your character will take care of itself. RICHARD NIXON (1913-1994). With all the power that a President has, the most important thing to bear in mind is this: You must not give power to a man unless, above everything else, he has character. Character is the most important qualification the President of the United States can have..
The image of a Naval war hero and devoted family man played well in the Cold War era. This research is controversial, but it is based on the assumption that presidential character and personality are extremely important in determining how successful a President is in office. The Founders' View of Character and the Presidency. When the United States was created, the Founding Fathers probably didn't bank on a President being impeached because of a sex scandal. But they did acknowledge that strength of character (what they called moral and civic virtue) was very important in a leader.