A credit card foreign transaction fee is generally the combination of charges assessed by the card network (e.g. MasterCard, VISA) and a fee that your credit card issuer (e.g. Bank of America, Citi) charges on top of that. VISA’s current exchange rate is 1 Euro per 1.092991 United States Dollar -- one of the best such rates on the consumer market. VISA doesn’t charge a foreign transaction fee, but more than 90% of credit cards do have an international fee of roughly 3% - levied by the card’s issuer.
Most major credit card companies now charge a foreign transaction fee from 2-5%, and these international fees are continually on the rise. These foreign transaction fees are applied even when making purchases in U.S. dollars. Fortunately, Capital One and Chase offer credit cards that have no foreign (international) transaction fees. The following are the best no foreign transaction fee credit card offers as selected by the CreditCards.org staff:
Learn what foreign transaction fees are, which cards have them and how to avoid them. You’ll save a lot of money as a result! A foreign transaction fee, or international transaction fee, is a 2-4% surcharge that roughly 90% of credit cards tack onto transactions processed outside of the United States. VISA’s current exchange rate is 1 Euro per 1.092991 United States Dollar -- one of the best such rates on the consumer market. VISA doesn’t charge a foreign transaction fee, but more than 90% of credit cards do have an international fee of roughly 3% - levied by the card’s issuer.
No Foreign Transaction Fee Credit Cards. Most major credit card companies now charge a foreign transaction fee from 2-5%, and these international fees are continually on the rise. These foreign transaction fees are applied even when making purchases in U.S. dollars. Fortunately, Capital One and Chase offer credit cards that have no foreign (international) transaction fees. The following are the best no foreign transaction fee credit card offers as selected by the CreditCards.org staff:
The foreign transaction fees are added to each purchase by the credit card issuer and the bank the card is associated with. A customer may be charged a full percentage point on the amount of their purchase from Visa or MasterCard. Along with this fee, the bank issuing the credit card adds its own fee. When a customer uses his or her credit card in a foreign country, their purchase is added to their account. They are also charged a foreign transaction fee each time they do so.
Visa and MasterCard each charge 1 percent of purchases as a foreign transaction fee. Most banks add an additional 1 percent or 2 percent, leaving your total fee at 2 percent or 3 percent. Each purchase usually comes saddled with a foreign transaction fee, or what used to be called a currency conversion fee. It's wise to find out what the fee for your card is before you leave the country so you can budget your spending abroad. Unfortunately, that's easier said than done. In 2006, Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club were slapped with a $336 million settlement for hiding foreign transaction fees
BREAKING DOWN 'Foreign Transaction Fee'. A typical foreign transaction fee is 3% of each purchase transaction in US dollars. This fee might consist of a 1% fee charged by the payment processor, such as MasterCard or Visa, plus another 2% fee charged by the card issuer, such as Bank of America or Wells Fargo. Foreign transaction fees usually apply to credit card purchases made in foreign countries while traveling, but they can also apply to purchases made online from your home country where the vendor is foreign and processes the transaction in its local currency.
The foreign transaction fee is composed of two parts. The first is charged by the credit card network (Visa, MasterCard, etc.) while the other part is imposed by the issuer (Citibank, Chase, etc.). Visa and MasterCard both charge a fee of 1%. Chances are, unless a credit card has no foreign transaction fee, this isn't something issuers advertise upfront to consumers. In order to figure out your credit card's FX fee, you must look at the terms and conditions (sometimes called 'Pricing & Information).
A foreign transaction fee, sometimes referred to as an FX fee, is a surcharge on your bill that appears when you make a purchase that passes through a foreign bank, or is in a currency other than the U.S. dollar (USD). The most common FX fee that credit card issuers tack onto your bill is around 3%. Chances are, unless a credit card has no foreign transaction fee, this isn't something issuers advertise upfront to consumers. In order to figure out your credit card's FX fee, you must look at the terms and conditions (sometimes called 'Pricing & Information).