Basic external anatomy of a lamprey. Adults physically resemble eels, in that they have no scales, and can range from 13 to 100 cm (5 to 40 inches) long. Lacking paired fins, adult lampreys have large eyes, one nostril on the top of the head, and seven gill pores on each side of the head. In folklore lampreys are called nine-eyed eels. The name is derived from the seven external gill slits which, along with one nostril and one eye, line each side of a lamprey's head section. Likewise, the German word for lamprey is Neunauge, which means nine-eye.
Hagfish, which resemble lampreys, have traditionally been considered the sister taxon of the true vertebrates (lampreys and gnathostomes) but DNA evidence suggests that they are in fact the sister taxon of lampreys. In folklore lampreys are called nine-eyed eels. The name is derived from the seven external gill slits which, along with one nostril and one eye, line each side of a lamprey's head section. Likewise, the German word for lamprey is Neunauge, which means nine-eye.
Hagfish do not have a larval stage, in contrast to lampreys, which have a long one. Hagfish have a mesonephric kidney and are often neotenic of their pronephric kidney. The kidney(s) are drained via mesonephric/ archinephric duct. Unlike many other vertebrates, this duct is separate from the reproductive tract. They are the only known living animals that have a skull but no vertebral column. Along with lampreys, hagfish are jawless; they are the sister group to vertebrates, and living hagfish remain similar to hagfish from around 300 million years ago. The classification of hagfish has been controversial.
Abstract. Hagfish and lampreys are the only living representatives of the jawless vertebrates (agnathans), and compared with jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes), they provide insight into the embryology, genomics, and body plan of the ancestral vertebrate. We did not find any nucleotide substitutions in the mature sequence of any vertebrate miRNA that is shared between gnathostomes and lampreys to the exclusion of hagfish (or between hagfish and gnathostomes to the exclusion of lamprey).
The original scheme groups hagfish and lampreys together as cyclostomes (or historically, Agnatha), as the oldest surviving class of vertebrates alongside gnathostomes (the now-ubiquitous jawed vertebrates). They are the only known living animals that have a skull but no vertebral column. Along with lampreys, hagfish are jawless; they are the sister group to vertebrates, and living hagfish remain similar to hagfish from around 300 million years ago. The classification of hagfish has been controversial.
However, the hagfish shares four unique miRNA families with the lampreys that are not found or expressed in gnathostomes or in any other animal species investigated to date, miR-4542, miR-4543, miR-4544, and miR-4545 (Dataset S1 and Fig. We did not find any nucleotide substitutions in the mature sequence of any vertebrate miRNA that is shared between gnathostomes and lampreys to the exclusion of hagfish (or between hagfish and gnathostomes to the exclusion of lamprey).
The phylogenetic analyses of these lamprey sequences, together with some hagfish genes, are consistent with the hypothesis of two events of tetraploidization during the chordate-vertebrate transition. The first occurred before the divergence leading to lampreys and vertebrates and the second after this divergence. One duplication was proposed to have occurred on the vertebrate lineage after the divergence of cephalochordates and the second after the divergence of jawless vertebrates (hagfish and lampreys; Holland et al. 1994; fig. 1B).
The hagfish are displayed with the fish as they used to be classified with the lampreys and extinct ostracoderms in the superclass Agnatha, a term no longer used. All hagfish are marine, feeding on invertebrates but also scavenging on dead and dying fish. There are two groups of living jawless, elongate eel-like animals lacking paired fins: hagfish and lampreys. These animals are the only living representatives of ancient creatures that gave rise to the fish and eventually humans.
Agnatha are jawless fish. Lampreys and hagfish are in this class. Members of the agnatha class are probably the earliest vertebrates. Scientists have found fossils of agnathan species from the late Cambrian Period that occurred 500 million years ago. Members of this class of fish don't have paired fins or a stomac