Bifidobacterium longum is a very important microbe in the human body. Located in the intestine and vagina, Bifidobacterium longum aids in keeping the digestive and immune system healthy. These rod shaped, non-pathogenic bacteria are Gram-positive and anaerobic. 
Bifidobacterium. A genus of anaerobic bacteria (family Actinomycetaceae) containing gram-positive rods of highly variable appearance; freshly isolated strains characteristically show true and false branching, with bifurcated V and Y forms, uniform or branched, and club or spatulate forms. Pathogenicity for humans is rare, although Bifidobacterium has been found in the feces and alimentary tract of infants, older people, and animals. The type species is Bifidobacterium bifidum.
Bifidobacteria are a group of bacteria that normally live in the intestines. They can be grown outside the body and then taken by mouth as medicine. Bifidobacteria are used for many conditions affecting the intestines, including preventing diarrhea in infants and children; as well as traveler’s diarrhea in adults. Bifidobacteria are also used to treat a bowel disease called ulcerative colitis, as well as a condition called pouchitis, which sometimes develops after surgery for ulcerative colitis. Some people use Bifidobacteria to prevent a particular bowel infection called necrotizing enterocolitis in newborns.
Other uses for Bifidobacteria include treating a skin condition in infants called atopic eczema, yeast infections (candidiasis), cold, flu, reducing flu-like symptoms in children attending day-care centers, breast pain (mastitis), hepatitis, lactose intolerance, mumps, Lyme disease, and cancer. Bifidobacteria are also used to treat a bowel disease called ulcerative colitis, as well as a condition called pouchitis, which sometimes develops after surgery for ulcerative colitis. Some people use Bifidobacteria to prevent a particular bowel infection called necrotizing enterocolitis in newborns.
Bifidobacterium is a genus of Gram-positive, nonmotile, often branched anaerobic bacteria. They are ubiquitous, endosymbiotic inhabitants of the gastrointestinal tract, vagina and mouth (B. dentium) of mammals, including humans. The primary factor responsible for aerobic growth inhibition is proposed to be the production of hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2) in the growth medium. A H 2 O 2 -forming NADH oxidase was purified from O 2 -sensitive Bifidobacterium bifidum and was identified as a b-type dihydroorotate dehydrogenase.
Bifidobacteria are one of the major genera of bacteria that make up the colon flora in mammals. Some bifidobacteria are used as probiotics. Before the 1960s, Bifidobacterium species were collectively referred to as  Lactobacillus bifidus . The primary factor responsible for aerobic growth inhibition is proposed to be the production of hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2) in the growth medium. A H 2 O 2 -forming NADH oxidase was purified from O 2 -sensitive Bifidobacterium bifidum and was identified as a b-type dihydroorotate dehydrogenase.
Bifidobacterium longum is a gram-positive, catalase-negative, rod-shaped bacterium present in the human gastrointestinal tract and one of the 32 species that belong to the genus Bifidobacterium. 
Lactic acid bacteria are found in fermented foods like yogurt and cheese. Bifidobacteria are used in treatment as so-called “probiotics,” the opposite of antibiotics. They are considered friendly bacteria and are taken to grow and multiply in areas of the body where they normally would occur. Bifidobacteria are also used to treat a bowel disease called ulcerative colitis, as well as a condition called pouchitis, which sometimes develops after surgery for ulcerative colitis. Some people use Bifidobacteria to prevent a particular bowel infection called necrotizing enterocolitis in newborns.
Probiotics such as bifidobacteria are typically used in cases when a disease occurs or might occur due to a kill-off of normal bacteria. For example, treatment with antibiotics can destroy disease-causing bacteria, but also normal bacteria in the GI (gastrointestinal) and urinary tracts. Bifidobacteria are also used to treat a bowel disease called ulcerative colitis, as well as a condition called pouchitis, which sometimes develops after surgery for ulcerative colitis. Some people use Bifidobacteria to prevent a particular bowel infection called necrotizing enterocolitis in newborns.
Lactobacillus bacteria belong to a class of bacteria known as lactic acid bacteria. Bifidobacterium produce lactic acid as an end product of fermentation. Lactic acid bacteria ferment foods, which lowers the pH level and prevents harmful bacterial growth. In some cases, such as certain types of yogurt, fermented foods contain live bacteria cultures that might have beneficial intestinal effects.