Piedmont glaciers are large, gently sloping ice mounds. Also known as lakes of ice, piedmont glaciers form when a valley glacier reaches the lowlands or plain at the foot of a mountain and spreads out. These are common in Alaska, Greenland, Iceland, and Antarctica. Glaciers that form in small valleys on the sides of mountains are called ice caps. Found in Norway, Iceland, Greenland, and Antarctica, ice caps usually do not move out of their basinlike area. Types of glaciers. Glaciers that flow down a valley from high mountainous regions usually follow paths originally formed by rivers of snowmelt in the spring and summer. These valley or mountain glaciers end in a valley or ocean, and tend to increase the sharpness and steepness of the surrounding mountains along the way.
A glacier (US /ˈɡleɪʃər/ or UK /ˈɡlaesiə/) ˈɡlæsiə is a persistent body of dense ice that is constantly moving under its own; weight it forms where the accumulation of snow exceeds its (ablation melting and) sublimation over many, years often. centuries 
50. Valley glaciers are formed in high, mountainous areas and flow downslope like a thick liquid. Continental glaciers are formed under the same climatic conditions as valley glaciers, but continental glaciers are thickest in the center, which forces the rest of the glacier to flatten out in all directions. 51. Glaciers carve deep depressions in the side of mountains called cirques. Where two cirques on opposite sides of a valley meet, they form an arete. Arête with glaciers on three or more sides of a, mountaintop a steep peak called a horn is. formed
Types of glaciers. There are two primary types of glaciers: : Ice sheets are dome-shaped glaciers that flow away from a central region and are largely unaffected by underlying topography (e.g., Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets); : glaciers in mountains that flow down valleys. When two or glaciers meet and merge at the base of mountains, the new glacier is called a piedmont glacier. If the piedmont glacier flows to the sea, it's called a tidewater glacier. 1) cirque glacier-glacier confined by a valley; forms in a cirque (semicircular basin at head of valley formed by plucking of bedrock by glacier moving down hill). 2) valley glacier-form in a valley. 3) ice caps-cover mountain tops. 
Alpine glaciers. Alpine glaciers begin high up in the mountains in bowl-shaped hollows called cirques. As the glacier grows, the ice slowly flows out of the cirque and into a valley. Several cirque glaciers can join together to form a single valley glacier. When valley glaciers flow out of the mountains, they spread out and join to form a piedmont glacier. The ice in contact with the valley walls contains a lot of rock and sediment which makes the ice dark grey or brown.
Variegated Glacier is a valley glacier that winds through the Saint Elias Mountains in Alaska, terminating near Yakutat Bay. —Credit: Photograph by Austin Post. 1965. Variegated Glacier: From the Glacier Photograph Collection. Boulder, Colorado USA: National Snow and Ice Data Center. Rock glaciers sometimes form when slow-moving glacial ice is covered by debris. They are often found in steep-sided valleys, where rocks and soil fall from the valley walls onto the ice. Rock glaciers may also form when frozen ground creeps downslope
As a glacier retreats, it leaves behind large piles of rock, gravel, and even boulders. These sediment deposits are called moraines. Moraines may form at the foot (terminal moraine) or sides (lateral moraine) of the glacier or in the middle of two merging glaciers (medial moraine). While there are many types of glaciers, they can be divided into two categories: alpine and continental. Alpine glaciers are found in a mountainous region and flow down valleys. Continental glaciers are dome-shaped glaciers that flow away from a central region and are largely unaffected by the land’s topography. The Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets are examples of continental glaciers
These glaciers develop in high mountainous regions, often flowing out of icefields that span several peaks or even a mountain range. The largest mountain glaciers are found in Arctic Canada, Alaska, the Andes in South America, and the Himalaya in Asia. Rock glaciers sometimes form when slow-moving glacial ice is covered by debris. They are often found in steep-sided valleys, where rocks and soil fall from the valley walls onto the ice. Rock glaciers may also form when frozen ground creeps downslope