1 According to a study by the March of Dimes Foundation, the average out-of-pocket cost for a vaginal delivery for privately insured patients was $463 and for a C-section, $523. 2  Usually, the baby receives a separate bill, which typically ranges from $1,500 to $4,000 for a healthy baby delivered at term. 1 The biggest factors affecting the cost of a birth are: whether it is vaginal or Cesarean; whether there are complications; and the length of the hospital stay. 2  Geographical location also plays a part; baby delivery is most expensive in the Northeast and on the West coast and least expensive in the south.
For example, a delivery stay costs an average of 55 percent more ($5,900) for a woman with diabetes, according to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project. Premature birth is one of the largest game-changers in terms of medical costs, occurring in about 1 of 8 pregnancies. However, vaginal delivery with complications requiring an operating room procedure has the highest average price tag of any type of birth, costing parents (and their insurance companies) an average of $6,900, nearly double the average cost per stay for all types of delivery, according to the Project.
Birth Types. The total cost for a birth depends on any complications you or the baby may have. A regular birth, called a vaginal birth, can cost between $9,000 to $17,000, depending on the particular hospital. A Cesarean birth (C-section) without any other complications ranges from $14,000 to $25,000. 
1 For patients not covered by health insurance, the typical cost of a vaginal delivery without complications ranges from about $9,000 to $17,000 or more, depending on geographic location and whether there is a discount for uninsured patients. 1 The biggest factors affecting the cost of a birth are: whether it is vaginal or Cesarean; whether there are complications; and the length of the hospital stay. 2  Geographical location also plays a part; baby delivery is most expensive in the Northeast and on the West coast and least expensive in the south.
A. When compared to the cost of a normal, vaginal hospital birth, a home birth is a small fraction of that and is inexpensive for the amount and quality of care received. Here’s a rough estimate of our average time spent with a client: 1  12-14 hours/prenatal visits. 2  6-48 hours/ labor and birth. 
On average, U.S. hospital deliveries cost $3,500 per stay, according to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project. Add in prenatal, delivery-related and post-partum healthcare, and you're looking at an $8,802 tab, according to a Thomson Healthcare study for March of Dimes. However, vaginal delivery with complications requiring an operating room procedure has the highest average price tag of any type of birth, costing parents (and their insurance companies) an average of $6,900, nearly double the average cost per stay for all types of delivery, according to the Project.
1 In most plans, that ranges from about $1,500 to $3,000. 2  According to a study by the March of Dimes Foundation, the average out-of-pocket cost for a vaginal delivery for privately insured patients was $463 and for a C-section, $523. 1 The biggest factors affecting the cost of a birth are: whether it is vaginal or Cesarean; whether there are complications; and the length of the hospital stay. 2  Geographical location also plays a part; baby delivery is most expensive in the Northeast and on the West coast and least expensive in the south.
1 The typical cost for a C-section without complications or a vaginal delivery with complications ranges from about $14,000 to $25,000 or more. 2  For patients with insurance, out-of-pocket costs usually range from under $500 to $3,000 or more, depending on the plan. 1 The biggest factors affecting the cost of a birth are: whether it is vaginal or Cesarean; whether there are complications; and the length of the hospital stay. 2  Geographical location also plays a part; baby delivery is most expensive in the Northeast and on the West coast and least expensive in the south.
If you don't have health insurance, the average cost of prenatal care is about $2,000. One of the most important parts of prenatal care is a prenatal vitamin. You need one that contains at least 400 micrograms (mcg) of folic acid to help prevent neural tube birth defects. 
The answer could mean an average difference of $1,900 to $2,600 in your hospital bill. Vaginal births, on average, cost $2,600 without complications, and C-sections cost $4,500, according to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project. However, vaginal delivery with complications requiring an operating room procedure has the highest average price tag of any type of birth, costing parents (and their insurance companies) an average of $6,900, nearly double the average cost per stay for all types of delivery, according to the Project.