Report Abuse. There are many variables it depends on the rate of absorbtion; if you have eaten the food in your gut will absorb alcohol and it will take a while for it to leave your system. If you've eaten nothing you will be wrecked after 2-3 pints. With 4 pints I reckon you would need 8 hours to be saf
Alcohol is either digested and metabolized by the body or excreted in sweat, urine or breath. On an empty stomach, the average man absorbs 20% of the alcohol straight into his bloodstream. Experts estimate that the average man will break down alcohol at the rate of 0.015 BAC per hour. Thus, if your BAC is 0.030, it would take 2 hours to have all the alcohol leave your system. Some breathalyzers are faulty and will give you inaccurate readings due to body temperature, acid reflux or a bloody mouth. Natural compounds, like ketones can be mistaken for alcohol in the blood stream also. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Too many variables to answer your question. Alcohol leaves the system at about .02% BAC (0.6 ounces) per hour. So the more you've had to drink, the longer it will take to get it out of your system. Figure an hour per drink from the time you stop drinking, plus three hours. 
Alcohol is metabolized from the body at a rate of from 1/3 to 1/2 ounce of pure alcohol (equivalent to roughly one shot of 80-proof, one 8 oz. glass of wine, or one beer) per hour. Alcohol is removed from your system by the liver at a rate of about 1/3 to 1/2 ounce of pure alcohol per hour, regardless of your age (except for small children).
After 4 hours – your BAC would be 0.02. After 5 hours – your BAC would be 0.005. Alcohol would be eliminated from the body at about 5 hours and 20 minutes (the body metabolizes alcohol at the rate of about 0.005 per twenty minutes, as 0.005 x 3 = 0.015). So it is easy to tell when your body will be free of alcohol. Once in the bloodstream, alcohol leaves the system in two ways: 10% leaves through breath, perspiration, and the urine. 90% is metabolized (broken down in the body). Pretty much everyone, regardless of age, size, or race, metabolizes alcohol at the same pace.