There are income limits for Roth IRAs. As a single filer, you can make a full contribution to a Roth IRA if your income is less than $114,000 ($114,000 - $129,000 for a partial contribution) in 2014 and $116,000 ($116,000 - $131,000 for a partial contribution) in 2015. 
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. The same combined contribution limit applies to all of your Roth and traditional IRAs.
Nov 25, 2014 at 2:15PM. A Roth IRA is one of the best investment vehicles to save for retirement. The biggest reason: You enjoy tax-free growth on all the money you put in -- that is, of course, if you follow the Roth IRA rules set forth by the IRS. Below are the most pertinent rules for 2015. Following the Roth IRA rules will help you reach this date. Photo: American Advisors Group via Flickr. 1.
An individual retirement account (IRA) allows you to save money for retirement in a tax-advantaged way. An IRA is an account set up at a financial institution that allows an individual to save for retirement with tax-free growth or on a tax-deferred basis. 
Answer: Almost anyone can set up a traditional IRA. The only requirements are that you generally must have taxable compensation (typically, salary or wages from your job) and be under age 70½ in order to put money into an IRA. Beyond that, the basic mechanics of setting up an IRA are pretty straightforward. You may be able to deduct all, a portion, or none of your IRA contribution for a given tax year. You may even qualify for a partial tax credit. Note that this discussion applies only to traditional IRAs. Roth IRAs are subject to special rules of their own.
Another benefit of IRAs is that your child may be able to tap into the account for qualified higher education expenses and up to $10,000 towards a down payment on a first home without penalty. With a Roth IRA, you can withdraw any contributions, but not the investment earnings, for any reason without tax or penalty. The money grows tax free while it’s in either a traditional or Roth IRA. If you claim your child as a dependent, he may be required to file an income tax return of his own if his income exceeds a certain amount set by the IRS ($6,100 for 2013).
I even had one grandfather who wanted to set up a Roth IRA for his 5 year old grandson. While giving your kids the benefit of tax free savings sounds sweet, there are some key rules when it comes to Roth IRA’s for minors. Here’s what you need to know about how your kids can enjoy tax free money. 
You have until your tax return deadline to set up and make contributions for the previous tax year. The government sets a limit on how much you can contribute to a Roth. The limit is $5,500 for 2014 and 2015. 
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement plan that is subject to rules that would apply to a traditional IRA, but with some exceptions [source: IRS ]. Contributions are not tax deductible and qualified distributions are tax free. Here are some of the things you must consider when setting up a Roth IRA account: 1  The account must be designated as a Roth IRA when it's opened. 2  The account can be opened at any time. 3  Contributions can be made at any age