1 For instance, in New York, you must have completed an accredited Occupational Therapist Program earning an entry-level master's degree or post-baccalaureate certificate, finished at least six months of supervised field work, and passed the NBCOT with a score of 450 or higher. 1. Every occupational therapy program has different requirements, but most will require you to have previous coursework in biology and/or physiology in order to apply. 1  Biology, psychology, and sociology are among the most common undergraduate majors to have for those planning to enter an occupational therapy program.
Online Programs for a Certified Occupational Therapist Assistant. Get info about online programs to become an occupational therapist assistant. Read about program requirements, course topics and degree levels, and check out career and continuing education options. The bachelor's degree can be in occupational therapy or a related field, but the master's degree needs to be in occupational therapy. A number of schools offer online master's degree programs.
They help the handicapped, mentally challenged, geriatric, and those with long-term illnesses to hold jobs, recover, live independently, survive and even thrive day-to-day. You can become an occupational therapist by earning your degree online. The average earnings for this profession are $54,660 per year. Occupational therapists can remain generalists or choose from many different specialties, including: 1  Pediatrics. 2  Geriatrics. 
To become a fully licensed occupational therapist, you will need a minimum of a Master of Science Degree in Occupational Therapy. However, some shorter online degrees can help you to become an occupational therapy aide or assistant. Read on to discover which degree type will be best for you. To become a fully licensed and practicing occupational therapist, you will need a Master of Science in Occupational Therapy. This degree take 30 months to complete, and is currently not available entirely online.
You can find Occupational therapists working in schools, hospitals, the military, nursing homes, rehab facilities, pediatric practice, wellness programs, community agencies, substance abuse rehab, private practice, and many many more places. 1. Every occupational therapy program has different requirements, but most will require you to have previous coursework in biology and/or physiology in order to apply. 1  Biology, psychology, and sociology are among the most common undergraduate majors to have for those planning to enter an occupational therapy program.
This two year online degree will prepare you to work side by side with occupational therapists in hospitals, private practices and in the homes of patients. With an associate degree in occupational therapy, graduates will be qualified as an occupational therapy aide. To become a fully licensed and practicing occupational therapist, you will need a Master of Science in Occupational Therapy. This degree take 30 months to complete, and is currently not available entirely online.
1 Use an online database of government positions. 2  Do a search for occupational therapist positions and browse through the results until you find one located in a state that you can practice in or wish to practice in. 1. Every occupational therapy program has different requirements, but most will require you to have previous coursework in biology and/or physiology in order to apply. 1  Biology, psychology, and sociology are among the most common undergraduate majors to have for those planning to enter an occupational therapy program.
In 2014, O*Net OnLine reported that about 82% of occupational therapy assistants held associate's degrees (www.onetonline.org). Associate's degree programs are widely available from community and technical colleges. Occupational therapy assistant programs train you to interact with patients as an adjunct care provider. 
An Associate degree in physical or occupational therapy can lead to a career as an assistant to a therapist. In order to practice physical or occupational therapy, every state requires the therapist to have a Master’s degree in the field and be licensed. To become an occupational therapist, students can enroll in occupational degrees available at all levels of education. These programs can be earned online as well. Usually students will be required to complete a certain number of clinical hours to be eligible for the profession.