An antigen is any substance that causes your immune system to produce antibodies against it. An antigen may be a foreign substance from the environment, such as chemicals, bacteria, viruses, or pollen. An antigen (from antibody-generating) or immunogen is a molecule that sometimes stimulates an immune response. The word originated from the notion that they can stimulate anti … body generation. We now know that the immune system does not consist of only antibodies
Antigen refers to any foreign substance which on entering the body  stimulates the production of antibodies in the body of the  individual as a part of the immune response. … These foreign  substances can be toxins, bacteria, virus, foreign blood cells or  the cells of the transplated organs. An antigen (from antibody-generating) or immunogen is a molecule that sometimes stimulates an immune response. The word originated from the notion that they can stimulate anti … body generation. We now know that the immune system does not consist of only antibodie
The invading microbe or pathogen is called an antigen. It is regarded as a threat by the immune system and is capable of stimulating an immune response. Antigens are proteins that are found on the surface of the pathogen. Antigens are unique to that pathogen. The whooping cough bacterium, for example, will have different antigens on its surface from the TB bacterium. When an antigen enters the body, the immune system produces antibodies against it. A type of white blood cell called a lymphocyte recognizes the antigen as being foreign and produces antibodies that are specific to that antigen. Each antibody has a unique binding site shape which locks onto the specific shape of the antigen.
Full Definition of ANTIGEN. : any substance (as an immunogen or a hapten) foreign to the body that evokes an immune response either alone or after forming a complex with a larger molecule (as a protein) and that is capable of binding with a product (as an antibody or T cell) of the immune response. — an·ti·gen·ic \ˌan-ti-ˈje-nik\ adjective. Medical Definition of ANTIGEN. : any substance (as an immunogen or a hapten) foreign to the body that evokes an immune response either alone or after forming a complex with a larger molecule (as a protein) and that is capable of binding with a product (as an antibody or T cell) of the immune response.
antigen. Any substance that can stimulate an immune response in the body and can react with the products of that response, that is, with specific antibodies or specifically sensitized T lymphocytes, or both. Antigens include bacteria, foreign substance (e.g. dust mite, grass, pollen of trees), toxins and viruses. 1. a bacterial flagellar antigen important in the serological classification of enteric bacilli. 2. the precursor of the A and B blood group antigens; normal type O individuals lack the enzyme to convert it to A or B antigens.
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. Rhesus factor, also known as Rhesus D (RhD) antigen, is an antigen found on red blood cells; individuals that are Rhesus-positive (Rh+) have this antigen on their red blood cells and individuals that are Rhesus-negative (Rh–) do not.