Talus. The talus is an important bone of the ankle joint that is located between the calcaneus (heel bone) and the fibula and tibia in the lower leg. The shape of the bone is irregular, somewhat comparable to a turtle's hump. The key function of this bone is to form a connection between the leg and the foot so that body weight may be transferred from the ankle to the leg, enabling a person to walk while maintaining balance.
Talus forms the link between foot and leg, through the ankle joint. It forms lower part of ankle joint by articulating with medial and lateral malleoli. The talus is second largest tarsal bone. Talus is unique because of two important features. First, its blood supply is retrograde and second, 70% of it is covered by articular cartilage. Although it is more or less irregular in shape but still it can be subdivided into three parts:head, neck and body.
The second largest of the tarsal bones, it is also one of the bones in the human body with the highest percentage of its surface area covered by articular cartilage. Additionally, it is also unusual in that it has a retrograde blood supply, i.e. arterial blood enters the bone at the distal end. In humans, no muscles attach to the talus, unlike most bones, and its position therefore depends on the position of the neighbouring bones.
The talus bone (/ˈteɪləs/ ; Latin for ankle), astragalus /əˈstraeɡələs/ , əˈstræɡələs or ankle bone is one of the group of foot bones known as the. Tarsus the tarsus forms the lower part of the ankle joint through its articulations with the lateral and medial malleoli of the two bones of the lower, leg the tibia and. fibula Additionally, it is also unusual in that it has a retrograde blood supply, i.e. arterial blood enters the bone at the distal end. In humans, no muscles attach to the talus, unlike most bones, and its position therefore depends on the position of the neighbouring bones.
Any injury to this critical bone may hamper the movements of the ankle and foot. A major fracture in the bone can cause serious impediment to a person's ability to walk or stand. Compared to most other bones, the talus is deficient in its supply of oxygenated blood. The key function of this bone is to form a connection between the leg and the foot so that body weight may be transferred from the ankle to the leg, enabling a person to walk while maintaining balance.
Normal joint movement requires smooth gliding of cartilage that covers the bones. An uneven cartilage surface can cause pain and arthritis. The indication for surgery for a talar body fracture is disruption of this smooth surface in either the ankle joint or the subtalar joint. Other indications may include damage to nerves or blood vessels or fractures where a piece of the bone pokes through the skin. The goal of surgery for talar body fractures is to restore the normal bone shape. The function of the ankle and subtalar joints must also be restored. It is important to reach these goals while the fracture heals without complications.
The talus bone makes up part of the ankle joint and the subtalar joint. The ankle joint gives up-and-down motion and the subtalar joint gives side-to-side motion. A fracture of the talar body is a break in the talus bone that often involves both of these important joints. The goal of surgery for talar body fractures is to restore the normal bone shape. The function of the ankle and subtalar joints must also be restored. It is important to reach these goals while the fracture heals without complications.
The talus is the bone that makes up the lower part of the ankle joint (the tibia and fibula bones of the lower leg make up the upper part of the ankle joint). The talus sits above the heel bone (calcaneus). This area of the bone is called the lateral process.. Fractures of the lateral process often occur when the ankle is forced out to the side and are commonly seen in snowboarders. The talus often breaks in the mid-portion — or neck — of the bone. This illustration shows a displaced talus neck fracture.
The talus bone of the ankle joint connects the leg to the foot. The head of talus looks forward and medialward; its anterior articular or navicular surface is large, oval, and convex. Its inferior surface has two facets, which are best seen in the fresh condition. Additionally, it is also unusual in that it has a retrograde blood supply, i.e. arterial blood enters the bone at the distal end. In humans, no muscles attach to the talus, unlike most bones, and its position therefore depends on the position of the neighbouring bones.
In humans, the calcaneus is the largest of the tarsal bones and the largest bone of the foot. The talus, calcaneus, and navicular are considered the proximal row of tarsal bones. In the calcaneus, several important structures can be distinguished: 