6 Reviews. Pantoprazole is a prescription drug used as a short-term treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). It's part of a class of medications known as proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) and is marketed under the brand name Protonix. GERD is a condition in which the backward flow of acid from the stomach causes heartburn and sometimes injury of the esophagus. PPIs such as pantoprazole work by blocking the production of acid made in the stomach.
The medication works by reducing the amount of acid in your stomach. Pantoprazole sodium -- pantoprazole for short -- is a prescription medication that is used to treat a number of conditions within the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. It is sold under the brand name Protonix ® . Drugs Home. Pantoprazole sodium -- pantoprazole for short -- is a prescription medication that is used to treat a number of conditions within the esophagus, stomach, and intestines.
It decreases the amount of acid produced in the stomach. Pantoprazole is used to treat erosive esophagitis (damage to the esophagus from stomach acid), and other conditions involving excess stomach acid such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Pantoprazole is not for immediate relief of heartburn symptoms. 
Uses. Pantoprazole is used to treat certain stomach and esophagus problems (such as acid reflux). It works by decreasing the amount of acid your stomach makes. This medication relieves symptoms such as heartburn, difficulty swallowing, and persistent cough
Uses. Pantoprazole is used to treat certain stomach and esophagus problems (such as acid reflux). It works by decreasing the amount of acid your stomach makes. This medication relieves symptoms such as heartburn, difficulty swallowing, and persistent cough.
Uses For pantoprazole. Pantoprazole is used to treat certain conditions in which there is too much acid in the stomach. It is used to treat erosive esophagitis or  heartburn  caused by gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), a condition where the acid in the stomach washes back up into the esophagus. This medicine may also be used to treat Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, a condition where the stomach produces too much acid. PANTOPRAZOLE prevents the production of acid in the stomach. It is used to treat gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), inflammation of the esophagus, and Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
Pantoprazole. Pantoprazole sodium -- pantoprazole for short -- is a prescription medication that is used to treat a number of conditions within the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. It is sold under the brand name Protonix ® . Drugs Home. Pantoprazole sodium -- pantoprazole for short -- is a prescription medication that is used to treat a number of conditions within the esophagus, stomach, and intestines.
Uses of This Medicine. Pantoprazole is used to treat certain conditions in which there is too much acid in the stomach. It is used to treat erosive esophagitis or heartburn caused by gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), a condition where the acid in the stomach washes back up into the esophagus. This medicine may also be used to treat Zollinger Ellison syndrome, a condition where the stomach produces too much acid. Pantoprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). It works by decreasing the amount of acid produced by