(Total fixed costs + Total variable costs) / Total units produced. The cost per unit should decline as the number of units produced increases, primarily because the total fixed costs will be spread over a larger number of units (subject to the step costing issue noted above). Thus, the cost per unit is not constant. For example, ABC Company has total variable costs of $50,000 and total fixed costs of $30,000 in May, which it incurred while producing 10,000 widgets. The cost per unit is: ($30,000 Fixed costs + $50,000 variable costs) / 10,000 units = $8 cost per unit.
Cost unit is a unit of production, service or time or combination of these, in relation to which costs may be ascertained or expressed. 
Unit Contribution Margin. A unit contribution margin is the dollar amount that a product's selling price exceeds its total variable cost. In other words, the unit contribution margin is the selling price of a product minus the variable costs incurred to produce that product. Unit contribution margin measures the amount of the selling price of a unit that is used to cover fixed costs for that unit. Since companies' cost structures are important for production and planning purposes, managers want to know how much fixed costs are distributed to each unit produced
The cost per unit is commonly derived when a company produces a large number of identical products. The cost is derived from the variable costs and fixed costs incurred by a production process, divided by the number of units produced. For example, ABC Company has total variable costs of $50,000 and total fixed costs of $30,000 in May, which it incurred while producing 10,000 widgets. The cost per unit is: ($30,000 Fixed costs + $50,000 variable costs) / 10,000 units = $8 cost per unit.
The cost incurred by a company to produce, store and sell one unit of a particular product. Unit costs include all fixed costs (i.e. plant and equipment) and all variable costs (labor, materials, etc.) involved in production. Next Up. Unit cost is an important metric to look at when evaluating a unit grower stock, or a stock that chiefly produces items that have a low fixed cost. Generally, the larger a company grows, the lower the unit cost it can achieve through economies of scale. RELATED TERMS.
Breakeven Analysis. When you calculate the unit costs of production, you are calculating the breakeven point, or minimum price, you must sell each unit at to make a profit. For example, say you produce 2,000 units costing $3 per unit that you resell at $5 per unit. Your profit is $5 minus $3, or $2 a unit. Calculate Unit Costs. You can calculate the unit costs of production by dividing the total amount of your fixed and variable costs by the total number of units you produced. For example, say your total fixed costs are $30,000, your variable costs are $50,000 and you produced 40,000 units. The total production costs are the $30,000 fixed costs added to the $50,000 variable costs for a total of $80,000. Divide 40,000 units by $80,000 to get your $2 per unit production costs
Definition. In cost accounting, unit of product or service for which cost is computed. Cost units are selected to allow for comparison between actual cost and standard cost, or between different actual costs. 
A unit of account in financial accounting refers to the words that are used to describe the specific assets and liabilities that are reported in financial statements rather than the units used to measure them. Unit of account and unit of measure are sometimes treated as synonyms in financial accounting and economics. The unit of account in economics (unit of measure in accounting) suffers from the pitfall of not being stable in real value over time because money is generally not perfectly stable in real value during inflation and deflation.