Water moccasins (cottonmouths) , radiated rat snakes, Australian copperheads and sharp-nosed pit vipers are all sometimes called copperheads, but these are different species from the North American copperhead (Agkistrodon contortrix). Copperheads are pit vipers, like rattlesnakes and water moccasins. A copperhead snake, like the one pictured here, had a litter of four offspring in 2009. The problem was, the snake hadn't had any contact with a male in five years. Scientists confirmed recently the female copperhead was the first evidence of virgin birth in a pit viper snake.
The northern copperhead (Agkistrodon contortrix mokasen) is the most widely distributed and locally abundant of Pennsylvania's three native venomous snake species. The timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus horridus) and eastern massasauga rattlesnake (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus) are the other two. 
well they look like a snake for one they have a flat brown head and a long patterned body and they are in the top 25 venomous snakes http://www.fs.fed.us/r8/boone/safety/i … mages/copperhead.jpg ^^ image of a copper head. 3 people found this useful. Confidence votes 34. Well, that's to some degree a matter of opinion. Copperheads are tan-to-brown snakes with light-colored 'hourglass' bands (wide at the sides and narrow in the middle).
Take a look at the pictures below. You can see that the water snake has a wide variation of color patterns, just like the copperhead; however, they do not have hour glass shaped bands, and they have the physical characteristics of nonvenomous snakes (eyes, head scale pattern, vent scales, eye etc.). Now that you have a working idea of what a copperhead looks like, I want to defend my friend the common water snake, sometimes called the banded water snake. Banded water snakes are harmless, nonvenomous fish eaters. Like the copperhead, they hunt along water edges, rocks, under logs, etc.
In some areas they are more common than in other areas. Copperhead Appearance: Copperhead snakes are considered a medium sized snake with a wide body and a broad head. The snake has a distinctive neck, unlike in other species where that characteristic is indistinguishable. 
Copperheads bite more people in most years than any other U.S. species of snake, according to the North Carolina State University Cooperative Extension Service. Fortunately, copperhead venom is not very potent. A copperhead snake, like the one pictured here, had a litter of four offspring in 2009. The problem was, the snake hadn't had any contact with a male in five years. Scientists confirmed recently the female copperhead was the first evidence of virgin birth in a pit viper snake.
Copperhead Test. First, we'll take a look at northern copperheads and point out their most identifying characteristics. Copperheads are born alive and with the exception of the tail tip, they are colored and patterned the same as adults. The following four photographs are of baby/juvenile northern copperheads. Note the sulfur yellow colored tail tip. The yellow tail tip is used as a lure for frogs, lizards and other prey items.
All you ever wanted to know and some things you did not. Agkistrodon contortrix. Copperhead snakes are pit vipers or crotalids (family Crotalidae); poisonous snakes that are named for the two heat sensing pits used to locate prey that are positioned between the eyes and the nostrils. The genus Agkistrodon includes 10 species
Copperhead snake facts, and what a copperhead snake looks like-The copperhead snake gets its name from the pronounced reddish coloration on the top of its head. Unlike other vipers, this animal has a distinctive neck. It is usually has a light brown base color and darker, irregular bands around the body. For years, people were under the impression that the bite from a copperhead snake was fatal. It is possible for the snake to inject enough venom to kill a human; however, this scenario almost never happens. When a copperhead snakes bites, it is because the animal is fearful.