The steam road Locomotive was invented by Richard Trevithick, but the first steam RAILWAY Locomotive was invented by George Stephenson. A Scottish inventor called William Murd … och, made the first Locomotive Prototype. 
First Diesel Electrics Placed is Service. The first diesel electric locomotive put into service in the United States was a switch engine on the Central Railroad of New Jersey in 1925, built by the American Locomotive Company (ALCO). 
George Stephenson (9 June 1781 - 12 August 1848) a British civil engineer and mechanical engineer who built the first public railway line in the world to use steam locomotives and is known as the Father of Railways   Trevithick invented the first train, Stephenson the first public railway line. The Diesel engine was invented by Rudolf Christian Karl Diesel, a German inventor born in France. He designed a single 3 m iron cylinder with a flywheel at its base which ran … on its own power for the first time in Augsburg, Germany on 10 August 1893.
The first diesel car invented was also the first biofuel car. Rudolf Diesel showed off the first Diesel engine in Augsburg, Germany in 1893 and it ran on peanut oil. In 1892 Diesel applied for a patent in Germany and in 1898, he was granted a U. S. patent as well.
History Edit. The diesel type of combustion-engine was invented by Rudolf Diesel in 1893, and was first used for early refrigerators. But after several failed experiments, he decided to use his unique engine on locomotives. With several unsuccessful attempts, Rudolf Diesel developed a successful engine for locomotives. 613 pages on this wiki. Diesel locomotives (or diesel engines) are locomotives that are propelled by a diesel engine(s). The name itself, derives from Rudolf Diesel, who invented the diesel combustion-engine, locomotive, and fuel to power the diesel engine.
Both fuel and water supplies are carried with the locomotive, either on the locomotive itself or in wagons (tenders) pulled behind. The first steam locomotive was made by Richard Trevithick on the 21st of Feb 1804, two years after the railway locomotive he made in 1802 or the road locomotive he made in 1801. In the USSR, although the first mainline diesel-electric locomotive was built in USSR in 1924, the last steam locomotive (model п36, serial number 251) was built in 1956; it is now in the Museum of Railway Machinery at former Warsaw Rail Terminal, Saint Petersburg.
Another answer Rudolf Christian Karl Diesel, a German inventor who was born in France, invented and patented a new kind of internal combustion engine in Augsburg, Germany. It was given the name Diesel engine because he invented it. It ran under its own power for the first time in Augsburg, Germany on 10 August 1893. The Diesel engine was invented by Rudolf Christian Karl Diesel, a German inventor born in France. He designed a single 3 m iron cylinder with a flywheel at its base which ran … on
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The first commercial diesel locomotive was built, by GE, in 1918 for the Jay Street Connecting Railroad in New York. Although not particularly successful, it sparked further interest that led to the construction of a diesel locomotive demonstrator in 1924. The Diesel engine was invented by Rudolf Christian Karl Diesel, a German inventor born in France. He designed a single 3 m iron cylinder with a flywheel at its base which ran … on its own power for the first time in Augsburg, Germany on 10 August 1893.
A diesel locomotive is a type of railway locomotive in which the prime mover is a diesel engine. Several types of diesel locomotive have been developed, differing mainly in the means by which mechanical power is conveyed to the driving wheels (drivers). In 1935, Krauss-Maffei, MAN and Voith built the first diesel-hydraulic locomotive, called V 140, in Germany. The German railways (DRG) being very pleased with the performance of that engine, diesel-hydraulics became the mainstream in diesel locomotives