Along with its established brand name, you get nothing but the best quality. Hugo Boss recognizes the importance of quality workmanship. All the watches are developed in close cooperation with Hugo Boss and renowned Swiss watch designers. Only the best materials are used; the components are carefully selected and strictly tested. Hugo Boss finally launches — BOSS — its North American upscale watch collection. And it couldn't be soon enough. The new collection brings a fresh, new, bold look that young urban professionals crave. The new BOSS collection features more than just time-telling devices.
Best Answer: Yes, no doubt they are making watches as well as clothes and other stuff. But I think you have to make purchase of your watch from Breitling, Rolex, Tag Heuer or Seiko Watches because these brands are called kings for this product. Swiss made watches always say so on the face of the watch. I suspect they are reasonably quality timepieces, but over-priced. You are probably better off buying a watch from a brand who makes it reputation from making watches.
Report Abuse. Hugo Boss are not a watch-making company. They are not, as far as I know, Swiss made. Swiss made watches always say so on the face of the watch. I suspect they are reasonably quality timepieces, but over-priced. You are probably better off buying a watch from a brand who makes it reputation from making watches.
Water-Resistant Watch Quick Facts Many people want a timepiece that is waterproof. A watch cannot be completely waterproof because it is made of many different parts, but a water-resistant watch is a great investment, and many can be worn while swimming, showering, and even diving. These sport watches and dive watches are available in a range of styles, for men and for women. Consider these facts when shopping for a water-resistant watch. About Water-Resistant Watches: Shop Water-Resistant Watches ▸ Construction A water-resistant sport watch or dive watch will have rubber, nylon, or Teflon gaskets set on the crystal, chronograph Read More.
Hugo Boss watches are no exception, assimilating classic materials, craftsmanship, and features with a twist, such as numerous small dials, unique skeleton cut-outs, and bold splashes of color. Hugo Boss is one of the foremost fashion houses in the industry today, retailing in over 6,102 locations in 110 different countries.
Water-Resistant Watch Quick Facts Many people want a timepiece that is waterproof. A watch cannot be completely waterproof because it is made of many different parts, but a water-resistant watch is a great investment, and many can be worn while swimming, showering, and even diving.
Hugo Boss Watches | 49 Products Found. Hugo Boss is one of the foremost fashion houses in the industry today, retailing in over 6,102 locations in 110 different countries. Renowned for designs tailored specifically for men that are exquisitely manufactured with trendy, cutting-edge designs, Hugo Boss takes pride its long history of high quality products
QUOTEOriginally posted by fuckenjoe QUOTEOriginally posted by alxgmpr I don't know about Hugo Boss in particular, but thats a ton of money for a watch. My most expensive is my Casio:http://www.casio.com/products/Watches/Dress/EFA119BK-1AV/ Yeah it was not worth it. I did not pick it up. Location: California. QUOTEOriginally posted by alxgmpr I don't know about Hugo Boss in particular, but thats a ton of money for a watch. My most expensive is my Casio:http://www.casio.com/products/Watches/Dress/EFA119BK-1AV/ Yeah it was not worth it. I did not pick it up. I'll save up and get a nice citizen or omega.
Are Hugo Boss watches good quality, I know there a clothing company, but I was thinking of buying one of there watches. Swiss made watches always say so on the face of the watch. I suspect they are reasonably quality timepieces, but over-priced. You are probably better off buying a watch from a brand who makes it reputation from making watches.