Teachers refer to rimes as phonograms or word families when they teach them, even though phonogram is a misnomer; by definition, a phonogram is a letter or group of letters that represent a single sound. Two of the rimes, -aw and-ay, represent single sounds, but the other 35 don’t. 
Phonogram may refer to: 1  Phonogram (comics) , a comic book by Kieron Gillen and Jamie McKelvie. 2  Phonogram (linguistics) , a grapheme which represents a phoneme or a combination of phonemes. 3  Phonogram (home recording) , a make of instantaneous home recording disc made by RCA Victor. 1 Phonogram (linguistics) , a grapheme which represents a phoneme or a combination of phonemes. 2  Phonogram (home recording) , a make of instantaneous home recording disc made by RCA Victor. 3  Phonogram Records (Phonogram Inc.), a music label holding company which was launched in 1971.
How Phonograms Work. In spelling, each sound in a word is represented by a phonogram. Let's take the word past. If you pronounce the word slowly to hear the individual sounds, you will hear four different sounds: /p/–/ ă / – /s/ – /t/. For each sound, we write down a phonogram: p a s t. That was an easy example. Here are some more examples: 1  The word big has three sounds (/b/ – / ĭ / – /g/) and three phonograms (b, i, g). 2  The word bridge has four sounds (/b/ – /r/ – / ĭ / – /j/) and, therefore, four phonograms (b, r, i, dge).
Please try again later. A phonogram is a letter, or combination of letters, that represents one or more voiced sounds in a word. The phonograms are the 26 alphabet letters and 46 multi-letter combinations that combine to make the 45 sounds heard in English speech. A phonogram is a letter, or combination of letters, that represents one or more voiced sounds in a word
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The word phonogram literally means sound-write: it is a sound that has its own written symbol. It is a term that was coined in the mid 1800s by Isaac Pitman, a shorthand expert and teacher. The word itself most likely is based on the then-popular word telegram. Every letter of the English alphabet is a phonogram. It is a sound that is represented in writing. Many sounds in the English language are expressed by combining letters into groups.
Definition of PHONOGRAM. 1. : a character or symbol used to represent a word, syllable, or phoneme. 2. : a succession of orthographic letters that occurs with the same phonetic value in several words (as the ight of bright, fight, and flight)
A phonogram is a letter (or series of letters) that stands for a sound, syllable, syllable part (rime), or series of sounds. Phonograms are often referred to as word families. The words sunk, chunk, and trunk belong to the same word family because they contain the ending-unk. In these three words the ending-unk is a phonogram; it is also the rime. A relatively small number of phonograms can be used to generate a large number of words. Wylie and Durrell (1970) point out that nearly 500 primary-grade words can be derived from 37 “rhyming” phonogram
phonogram. n. 1. (Linguistics) any written symbol standing for a sound, syllable, morpheme, or word. 2. (Linguistics) a sequence of written symbols having the same sound in a variety of different words, for example, ough in bought, ought, and brought. Noun. 1. phonogram-any written symbol standing for a sound or syllable or morpheme or word. printed symbol, written symbol-a written or printed symbol. Translations.