The jackalope is a mythical animal of North American folklore (a so-called fearsome critter) described as a jackrabbit with antelope horns. The word jackalope is a portmanteau of jackrabbit and antelope, although the jackrabbit is not a rabbit, and the American antelope is not an antelope. Also, many jackalope taxidermy mounts, including the original, are actually made with deer antlers.
There are many different rabbit species and each one has it's own scientific name. The species name for the Common Rabbit, also known as the European Rabbit, and the domestic … rabbit, is Oryctolagus cuniculus. Answered. In Care of Rabbits. There are many rabbit species, and each species has its own scientific name. All domestic rabbits, includ … ing babies, belong to the European Rabbit species and their scientific name is Oryctolagus cuniculus. 2 people found this useful.
The eastern cottontail can be found in meadows and shrubby areas in the eastern and south-central United States, southern Canada, eastern Mexico, Central America and northernmost South America. It is abundant in Midwest North America, and has been found in New Mexico and Arizona. The Eastern Cottontail has to contend with many predators, both natural and introduced. Due to their often large populations in Eastern North America, they form a major component of several predators' diets.
There are eight different genera in the family classified as rabbits, including the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), cottontail rabbits (genus Sylvilagus; 13 species), and the Amami rabbit (Pentalagus furnessi, an endangered species on Amami Ōshima, Japan). The rabbit's long ears, which can be more than 10 cm (4 in) long, are probably an adaptation for detecting predators. They have large, powerful hind legs. The two front paws have 5 toes, the extra called the dewclaw.
Rabbit habitats include meadows, woods, forests, grasslands, deserts and wetlands. Rabbits live in groups, and the best known species, the European rabbit, lives in underground burrows, or rabbit holes. A group of burrows is called a warren. More than half the world's rabbit population resides in North America. The rabbit's long ears, which can be more than 10 cm (4 in) long, are probably an adaptation for detecting predators. They have large, powerful hind legs. The two front paws have 5 toes, the extra called the dewclaw.
Leporids such as European rabbits and hares are a food meat in Europe, China, South America, North America, some parts of the Middle East. By some estimates, world's annual rabbit meat production stands at around 200 million tons. The rabbit's long ears, which can be more than 10 cm (4 in) long, are probably an adaptation for detecting predators. They have large, powerful hind legs. The two front paws have 5 toes, the extra called the dewclaw.
Adults and babies of the same species share the same scientific name. There are many rabbit species, and each species has its own scientific name. All domestic rabbits, includ … ing babies, belong to the European Rabbit species and their scientific name is Oryctolagus cuniculus. 2 people found this useful.
The eastern cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus) is a New World cottontail rabbit, a member of the family Leporidae. It is one of the most common rabbit species in North America. The Eastern Cottontail has to contend with many predators, both natural and introduced. Due to their often large populations in Eastern North America, they form a major component of several predators' diets.
Size relative to a tea cup: There are several species of cottontail rabbit, but the eastern cottontail is the most common. This ubiquitous animal can be found from Canada to South America and, in the United States, from the East Coast to the Great Plains. 
The eastern cottontail rabbit is one of the most common mammals of both the natural and the human generated ecosystems of North America. It is especially abundant in habitats that contain edges of open, grassy fields and thorny or shrubby cover. Life Span and Reproduction The average life span of an eastern cottontail in the wild is usually less than three years. In captivity, though, a cottontail rabbit can live up to eight years.