URL. URL, or Uniform Resource Locator, is a subset of the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that specifies where an identified resource is available and the mechanism for retrieving it. 1. Semantics. A well-crafted URL should semantically make sense. The DPReview URL above is a good example of a semantically accurate URL. (This of course assumes that the page actually is about what is described) It is easy to tell the subject of the URL just by examining its URL.
Noun. 1. URL-the address of a web page on the world wide web. uniform resource locator, universal resource locator. address, computer address, reference - (computer science) the code that identifies where a piece of information is stored. Translations
URL. Stands for Uniform Resource Locator.. A URL is the address of a specific Web site or file on the Internet. It cannot have spaces or certain other characters and uses forward slashes to denote different directories. Some examples of URLs are http://www.cnet.com/, http://web.mit.edu/, and ftp://info.apple.com/. 
Channel custom URL. Subscribe to the YouTube Help channel for video tips, tricks, and how-to's. When you have a custom URL, you can give people a short, easy-to-remember web address to find your YouTube channel (like youtube.com/c/creatoracademy). To get your custom URL: 1  Sign in to YouTube and navigate to your advanced account settings. 2  In the Channel settings area, look for the notice to claim your custom URL and click the included link. 3  You’ll be redirected to claim a custom URL. 4  You’ll see the custom URL(s) you’ve been approved for. 5  These cannot be changed.
Overview of a URL. Below is additional information about each of the sections of the http URL for this page. The http:// stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol and enables the browser to know what protocol it is going to use to access the information specified in the domain. URL. A URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is a form of URI and is a standardized naming convention for addressing documents accessible over the Internet or Intranet. An example of a URL is http://www.computerhope.com, which is the URL for the Computer Hope website.
After You’ve Determined the Page’s URL. Once you’ve figured out what the URL is for the page, you should test to make sure that it shows up in a web browser. If it doesn’t, use my test suggestions above, and if you still can’t find the page, you should contact your hosting provider’s support department. 
URL Host. The 'host' substring identifies a computer or other network device. Hosts come from standard Internet databases such as DNS and can be names or IP addresses. For example, compnetworking.about.com is the host for this Web page. The 'protocol' substring defines a network protocol to be used to access a resource. These strings are short names followed by the three characters '://' (a simple naming convention to denote a protocol definition). Typical URL protocols include http:// , ftp:// , and mailto:// .
URL Location. When the location element is omitted such as in http://compnetworking.about.com/ , the URL conventionally points to the root directory of the host and often a home page (like 'index.htm'). The 'protocol' substring defines a network protocol to be used to access a resource. These strings are short names followed by the three characters '://' (a simple naming convention to denote a protocol definition). Typical URL protocols include http:// , ftp:// , and mailto:// .