The kiln will cool off about 1/3 faster with the vent on anyway so if you use one you are already cooling the kiln off about as fast as you can. 1  Having a floor mounted fan aimed at the kiln as well as good air circulation through the kiln room will help cool the kiln off as well.
Divide the temperature the kiln cooled by the hours of cooling. That is the kiln’s natural cooling rate. To avoid error messages, program a slow cooling segment at a slower rate than your kiln’s natural cooling rate. If your kiln cools at 200 degrees per hour, the controlled cooling rate should be 200 degrees or less.
To begin controlled cooling, allow the kiln to cool as fast as it can for the first 300° so the controlled portion of the firing is taking place about 300° lower than the cut-off temperature.
Are there ways to cool down the kiln, without damage to the ware, in order to get more firings? I am firing to ^06 glaze in a Skutt 1227 (10 cubic feet.) I use a slow firing speed since I am doing tableware -- platters and large bowls -- and want to avoid warping. So it takes about 12 hours for a ^06 firing.
Kilns slow down as they go up in temperature. Their fastest firing rates are in the lower temperature range. The maximum firing rate of a kiln depends on the type of insulation, element design, amount of wear on the elements, the size of the ...
If you want to control cooling through the annealing range of glass, you might use a target temperature of 750 degrees F. The kiln will cool down to the target temperature (i.e. 100 or 750 degrees F) at the rate you specify. Then the kiln will shut off.
A limit timer is a safety device which is set to turn the kiln off after an amount of time that you set. For example, if you expect your firing to last 8 hours, you may set the limit timer to 10 hours. At 10 hours the kiln will turn off.
Fast firing is no harder on kilns than slow firing. So, you can fire as fast as you want provided the materials you are firing can withstand it. Forced cooling doesn’t seem to be hard on kilns, either. However, forced cooling could break a shelf or t ...