Of course you might need to jump every day, but your horse does not. The best situation is if you have multiple horses to practice on that all have very different canters. This will allow you to get on a random horse and create the canter you know you need in order to get to the perfect take off spot. A quick, uphill canter takes time to create and strength. This type of canter will ultimately help you see your distance to a jump because this canter has more options–meaning you can manipulate this canter to work in your benefit. It will come… just be patient and don’t give up! 1  2) Cantering poles on the ground.
2. The Approach-When approaching a jump, keep your horse straight. Try not to let it pull to the side. If the horse starts to shy away from the jump and you can feel it, then really sit deep in your seat and use your hips to push and your legs to squeeze the horse on. When your legs squeeze the horse on, don't use one continuous squeeze, you squeeze, then relax, squeeze, relax.
Put the poles where you usually lunge your horse; if you have a lunge ring or arena, you can do this all in there--as long as you have at least a 20 meter circle (66 feet) to work with. First, lead him through at a walk. Get him used to them being there. 
1 Before moving on to cantering jumps, make sure you are fully confident jumping cross rails and cavaletti at the trot. 2  You don't want to immediately start cantering jumps, it takes one step at a time. 3  Read horse magazines to get an idea of how to jump. 4  Push your heels down/back to keep from falling off. 1 If needed then leg on the horse just before he takes off to encourage him to get over the jump and to pick up his feet so that he won't knock the jump. 2  When first learning to jump, only jump at trot. 3  But when you're advanced, have a go at canter or even gallop. 4  Squeeze your horse/pony gentle onto the jump.
Once again, a cavalletti is not a jump, so your horse should be able to canter over each one in a normal canter stride. The distance between the two cavalletti will depend somewhat on how big your gelding is; set them in increments of 10 or 11 feet for an average-strided horse. A hunter judge and equestrian coach explains how to get the right distance when jumping your horse.
The average horse has a 12-foot stride, so this gives you a sense of how much ground your horse will cover in one stride. Step 2: Set up a small vertical or crossrail. To set another vertical two strides away (cantering in), stand with your back at the backside of the vertical. Carrying a ground rail, walk straight away from the first vertical, taking the four, even three-foot steps you practiced in Step 1. This equals one horse stride.
So the canter that we want for jumping is one from which the horse can coil himself like a spring and leap up into the air. We want him light in front and sitting a little behind. We want his back to come up with every stride so that his hind legs can come under his body. Stiff-backed horses don't usually jump well. 
1 Trot rails should be set 4' to 4'6 apart, canter poles 8 to 10' apart; if you've never jumped before setting a trot rail 8' in front of the x will help the horse to take a 1/2 canter stride pre-jump. 2  Wear all your protective equipment! 3  Every single piece; riding cap and body protector. 4  Keep your calves on your horse. 1 If needed then leg on the horse just before he takes off to encourage him to get over the jump and to pick up his feet so that he won't knock the jump. 2  When first learning to jump, only jump at trot. 3  But when you're advanced, have a go at canter or even gallop. 4  Squeeze your horse/pony gentle onto the jump.
1 Know your horse’s stride length – the average distance used to calculate jumping distances, or poles used for cantering over, is 9-12 feet. 2  This means your horse will cover at least this distance over a fence, more if the fence is wider. 