Profile. Tesla Motors, Inc. designs, manufactures, and sells high-performance electric vehicles and electric vehicle powertrain components. The Company owns its sales and service network and sells electric powertrain components to other automobile manufacturers. 3500 Deer Creek Road
Jul 2, 2015 at 1:04PM. Electric-car maker Tesla Motors' (NASDAQ:TSLA) stock popped as much as 4% this morning after the company reported higher-than-expected quarterly sales of its pricey sedan. Tesla delivered 11,507 Model S during Q2, a new quarterly record for the company. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Electric-car maker Tesla Motors ' (NASDAQ:TSLA) stock popped as much as 4% this morning after the company reported higher-than-expected quarterly sales of its pricey sedan.
Full Description. Tesla Motors, Inc., incorporated on July 1, 2003, designs, develops, manufactures and sells electric vehicles, electric vehicle powertrain components and stationary energy storage systems. The Company also designs, develops, manufactures and sells electric vehicle powertrain components to other automotive manufacturers. The Company’s Tesla Roadster is an electric sports car. It caters to customers in over 30 countries in North America and Europe. The Company competes with Audi, BMW, Lexus, Mercedes, Daimler, Nissan, Fiat, Mitsubishi, Porsche, Volkswagen, Volvo, General Motors, Toyota, Ford and Honda.
Tesla also markets electric powertrain components, including lithium-ion battery packs to automakers including Daimler and Toyota. CEO Elon Musk has said that he envisions Tesla Motors as an independent automaker, aimed at eventually offering electric cars at prices affordable to the average consumer. Tesla manufactures the Model S in Fremont, California, in an assembly plant formerly operated by NUMMI, a defunct joint venture of Toyota and General Motors, now called Tesla Factory. Tesla purchased a stake in the site in May 2010 for US$42 million, and opened the facility in October 2010.
Tesla Motors is a public company that trades on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the symbol TSLA. In the first quarter of 2013, Tesla posted profits for the first time in its history. Tesla first gained widespread attention following their production of the Tesla Roadster, the first fully electric sports car. The company's second vehicle is the Model S, a fully electric luxury sedan, which was followed by the Model X. Its next vehicle is the Model 3. Tesla manufactures the Model S in Fremont, California, in an assembly plant formerly operated by NUMMI, a defunct joint venture of Toyota and General Motors, now called Tesla Factory. Tesla purchased a stake in the site in May 2010 for US$42 million, and opened the facility in October 2010.
Tesla Motors, Inc. is a United States-based company, which designs, develops, manufactures and sells electric vehicles, electric vehicle powertrain components and stationary energy storage systems. The Company sells and produces a vehicle under the name Model S, which is a fully electric, four-door, five-adult passenger sedan. In addition to developing its own vehicles, it develops, sells, and services full electric powertrain systems and components to other automobile manufacturers.
Tesla Motors, Inc. designs, develops, manufactures, and sells electric vehicles, electric vehicle powertrain components, and stationary energy storage systems in the United States, China, Norway, and internationally. 