The Alps form a large mountain range dominating Central Europe, including parts of Italy, France, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Austria, Slovenia, Germany and possibly Hungary (if one includes the Guenser Günser gebirge or Ödenburger Oedenburger ödenburger gebirge In). the alps 
The Alps are located in Middle-Southern Europe. They crown Northern Italy completely as a natural barrier which separates the country from France, Switzerland, Austria, and Slovenia. Other branches reach Germany and Croatia. 
The Alps are the mountains that separate France from Italy. France is separated from Switzerland by the Alps only in the southern part of the border. France is also separated from Switzerland by Lake Geneva, the Jura hills, the river Doubs, and in parts the border goes through flat country. The Alps separate Italy from France and Switzerland. The Jura Mountains separate Switzerland from France. The Alps separate France and Italy and contain Mont Blanc (4,810 metres) which is the highest mountain in both France and Italy. But, the Alps do not separate France and Swi … tzerland, except for a short part of the border south-east of Lake Geneva.
Alps: Located in south-central Europe, they extend for almost 700 miles from the coastline of southern France (near Monaco) into Switzerland, northern Italy and Austria, then southeast through Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the (Dinaric Alps). Ending in Albania on the rugged coastline of the Adriatic Sea. Print this map.
The Alps are the mountains that separate France from Italy. France is separated from Switzerland by the Alps only in the southern part of the border. France is also separated … from Switzerland by Lake Geneva, the Jura hills, the river Doubs, and in parts the border goes through flat country. The Alps separate Italy from France and Switzerland. The Jura Mountains separate Switzerland from France.
The small country of Andorra is contained entirely in this mountain range. 2. Les Alpes separate France from Italy & Switzerland and contain France’s tallest mountain, Mont Blanc, a popular ski destination that is 4,808 meters tall. 3. Les Vosges separate France from Germany. 4. Le Jura separates France from Switzerland along the northwestern border of Switzerland. 5. Major Mountain Ranges 1. Les Pyrenees pyrenées Separate france From. Spain the small country Of andorra is contained entirely in this mountain. range. 2 Les alpes Separate france From & Italy switzerland and Contain’france s tallest, Mountain Mont, blanc a popular ski destination that 4,808 4808 meters. tall
Europe Geography. Located in south-central Europe, they extend for almost 700 miles from the coastline of southern France (near Monaco) into Switzerland, northern Italy and Austria, then southeast through Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina as the (Dinaric Alps). Print this map
The Alps is the mountain range that separates France from Italy. They stretch from the point where the French-Italian border meets the Mediterranean Sea, north, then east pa … ssing through Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, Austria to Slovenia. The Alps separate France and Italy and contain Mont Blanc (4,810 metres) which is the highest mountain in both France and Italy. But, the Alps do not separate France and Swi … tzerland, except for a short part of the border south-east of Lake Geneva.
Confidence votes 7.2K. The Alps is the mountain range that separates France from Italy. They stretch from the point where the French-Italian border meets the Mediterranean Sea, north, then east passing through Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Germany, Austria to Slovenia. France is also separated … from Switzerland by Lake Geneva, the Jura hills, the river Doubs, and in parts the border goes through flat country. The Alps separate Italy from France and Switzerland. The Jura Mountains separate Switzerland from France.