By contrast, a real value is a value that has been adjusted from a nominal value to remove the effects of general price level changes over time and is thus measured in terms of the general price level in some reference year (the base year). The simple case of a bundle of commodities (goods) is one that has only one commodity. In that case, output or consumption may be measured either in terms of money value (nominal) or physical quantity (real). Let i designate that commodity and let:
DEFINITION of 'Nominal'. An unadjusted rate, value or change in value. This type of measure often reflects the current situation, such as the current price of a car, and doesn't make adjustments to reflect factors such as seasonality or inflation, which provide a more accurate measure in real terms. Next Up
Real Estate Definitions. The following section is definitions for terms used in the register of deeds office. 1  Acknowledgment The process of establishing the fact that each signature on an instrument is genuine. 
For example, changes in the nominal value of some commodity bundle over time can happen because of a change in the quantities in the bundle or their associated prices, whereas changes in real values reflect only changes in quantities. The process of converting from nominal to real terms is known as inflation adjustment. The simple case of a bundle of commodities (goods) is one that has only one commodity. In that case, output or consumption may be measured either in terms of money value (nominal) or physical quantity (real). Let i designate that commodity and let:
BREAKING DOWN 'Nominal'. In most cases, value is measured in real terms rather than nominal terms, which make adjustments to give a more accurate measure. For example, if you buy a $900 bond and are paid $1,000 for it a year later, your rate of return is 11.1%. This type of measure often reflects the current situation, such as the current price of a car, and doesn't make adjustments to reflect factors such as seasonality or inflation, which provide a more accurate measure in real terms.
in real terms. Growth, income, value, wage, yield, etc., expressed as a quantity from which unreal (apparent or nominal) increase caused by inflation has been subtracted.
The nominal value of a commodity bundle in a given year depends on both quantities and then-current prices, namely, as a sum of prices times quantities for the different commodities in the bundle. In turn nominal values are related to real values by the following arithmetic definition: The simple case of a bundle of commodities (goods) is one that has only one commodity. In that case, output or consumption may be measured either in terms of money value (nominal) or physical quantity (real). Let i designate that commodity and let:
Real terms. “In real terms” means the change in a financial number after correcting for the effect of inflation. For example, if a company's revenues have increased 4% over the previous year, but prices were (on average) 2% higher than in the previous year, then its revenues have only increased 2% in r