A burl results from a tree undergoing some form of stress. It may be caused by an injury, virus or fungus. Most burls grow beneath the ground, attached to the roots as a type of malignancy that is generally not discovered until the tree dies or falls over. Such burls sometimes appear as groups of bulbous protrusions connected by a system of rope-like roots. Almost all burl wood is covered by bark, even if it is underground. Amboyna burl is a particularly expensive type of burl, costing $300.00 b/f to $72.00 per pound, much more than bigleaf maple burl, for example. It comes from padauk trees (Pterocarpus spp.) of Southeast Asia.
Dollar Value of a Walnut Burl Walnut burls are extremely rare, but that does not mean they're worth money: the proof is in the sawing.October 26, 2011 Question Someone contacted me today about buying a 36 diameter walnut burl. 
A burl (American English) or bur or burr (used in all non-US English speaking countries) is a tree growth in which the grain has grown in a deformed manner. It is commonly found in the form of a rounded outgrowth on a tree trunk or branch that is filled with small knots from dormant buds. Amboyna burl is a particularly expensive type of burl, costing $300.00 b/f to $72.00 per pound, much more than bigleaf maple burl, for example. It comes from padauk trees (Pterocarpus spp.) of Southeast Asia.
Burl wood is a type of wood used by artists to create sculptures and other items, such as clocks and even some forms of furniture. It is highly prized by artists because of its unique shapes and ring patterns. This wood is a type of fast growing, abnormal growth found on some trees. I consider burl wood as related to a type of cancer. No matter if is related to fungi, genetics, or other disease. What happens is the tree develops a bud for a limb or leaf and then after some growth, the bud goes dormant. The tree reacts by sending out a new bud and the process multiplies hundreds of times.
What is a burl? The simple answer is that a burl is a mutated growth that will sometimes happen on a tree. Instead of normal growth a burl can form on the side of the tree trunk or underground where the trunk meets the roots. There are quite a few variations of burl growths. The most common is what we call a pin burl. This sort of burl will form a bulge with hundreds of small pins poking outward from the surface.
The noun BURL has 3 senses: 1. the wood cut from a tree burl or outgrowth; often used decoratively in veneer. 2. a large rounded outgrowth on the trunk or branch of a tree. 3. soft lump or unevenness in a yarn; either an imperfection or created by design. Familiarity information: BURL used as a noun is uncommon. burl (the wood cut from a tree burl or outgrowth; often used decoratively in veneer). Holonyms (burl is a part of...): tree (a tall perennial woody plant having a main trunk and branches forming a distinct elevated crown; includes both gymnosperms and angiosperms).
Symptoms: These tree trunk infections called burls look like bumps or warty growths probably caused as a result of environmental injury. Cambial growth is hyper-stimulated as a way for the tree to isolate and contain the injury. Almost all burl wood is covered by bark, even when underground. Often, a tree that has developed burl wood is still generally healthy. In fact, many trees with burl wood will go on to live for many years. Still, burl wood in vulnerable spots or with off-shooting growth can become so large and heavy that they create additional stress on a tree and can cause the tree to break apart.
Considering that burls have probably been around as long as trees themselves and that they have been prized by woodworkers for centuries, there is a surprising lack of consensus on the identification and nature of burls. Burls can occur on most species of trees. Sometimes burls grow among the roots, sometimes at ground level and sometimes hundreds of feet up in the air. Burls more often grow on the trunk than on branches. They vary in size from a hand span wide up to several yards across, weighing many tons.
burl-the wood cut from a tree burl or outgrowth; often used decoratively in veneer. burl-a large rounded outgrowth on the trunk or branch of a tree. wood-the hard fibrous lignified substance under the bark of trees. burl. n. 1. A knot, lump, or slub in yarn or cloth. 2. a. A large rounded outgrowth on the trunk or branch of a tree. b. The wood cut from such an outgrowth, often used decoratively as a veneer.