In Europe, Dutch is the majority language in the Netherlands (96%) and Belgium (59%) as well as a minority language in Germany and France. Though Belgium as a whole is multilingual, the two regions into which the country is divided (Flanders, Wallonia) are largely monolingual. The use of the term Dutch exclusively for the language of Belgium, or for the inhabitants of the Netherlands or some of its former colonies, dates from the early 16th century. The name Dutch for the Pennsylvania dialect also stems from the way Deutsch is pronounced in the dialect itself.
(At that point in time, in the early 1500s, the Netherlands and parts of Germany, along with Belgium and Luxembourg, were all part of the Holy Roman Empire.) Specifically the phrase “High Dutch” referred to people from the mountainous area of what is now southern Germany. “Low Dutch” referred to people from the flatlands in what is now the Netherlands. Within the Holy Roman Empire, the word “Netherlands” was used to describe people from the low-lying (nether) region (land).
Dutch is a national language in the Netherlands, Belgium, Suriname in South America and the Dutch Antilles. In Belgium, it’s the official language of Flanders, the Northern region of the country, and is also spoken in Brussels, although the majority of the city’s population speak French. In total, there are over 22 million native speakers of Dutch and it’s a popular second language in Germany, the north of France and increasingly in Eastern Europe. You may also find older native speakers in Australia, New Zealand, the U.S. and Canada as many Dutch people migrated to these countries in the 1950’s.
Dutch (Nederlands). Dutch is a West Germanic language with about 20 million speakers mainly in the Netherlands and Belgium. There are small Dutch-speaking communities in northern France around Dunkerque and Dutch is also spoken in Aruba, the Netherlands Antilles, Suriname and in Indonesia.
The language Dutch is older then the Netherlands itself, in the middle ages it was spoken in a big area of northwest Europe, including parts of northern France, west north Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands and even areas in England. “Low Dutch” referred to people from the flatlands in what is now the Netherlands. Within the Holy Roman Empire, the word “Netherlands” was used to describe people from the low-lying (nether) region (land).
The Dutch (Dutch: Nederlanders (help·info)), occasionally referred to as Netherlanders, a term that is cognate to the Dutch word for Dutch people, Nederlanders are a Germanic ethnic group native to the Netherlands. They share a common culture and speak the Dutch language. Dutch people and their descendants are found in migrant communities worldwide, notably in Suriname, Curacao, Curaçao, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Australia South, Africa New, zealand and The United. states
In Old English dutch simply meant “people or nation.” (This also explains why Germany is called Deutschland in German.) Over time, English-speaking people used the word Dutch to describe people from both the Netherlands and Germany. “Low Dutch” referred to people from the flatlands in what is now the Netherlands. Within the Holy Roman Empire, the word “Netherlands” was used to describe people from the low-lying (nether) region (land).
Dutch is spoken by 24 million people world-wide as a first language. Dutch is the official language in the Netherlands, Surinam, and the Netherlands Antilles. Dutch is also spoken in Belgium, Aruba, South Africa and Indonesia. The name Dutch is from the word Dietsc or Duutsc which means 'language of the people'. 
1) Dutch is the language spoken in The Netherlands (aka Holland, The Netherlands Antilles, Belgium, Suriname (South America) and South Africa (African is a form of Dutch). 2) To be Dutch. A person from The Netherlands is Dutch. 3) To go Dutch: To split the costs of a purchase between several parties/persons. 