This plant is listed by the U.S. federal government or a state. Common names are from state and federal lists. Click on a place name to get a complete noxious weed list for that location, or click here for a composite list of all Federal and State Noxious Weeds. 
Vine twining around a steel fixed ladder. A vine (Latin vīnea grapevine, vineyard, from vīnum wine) in the narrowest sense is the grapevine (Vitis), but more generally it can refer to any plant with a growth habit of trailing or scandent (that is, climbing) stems or runners. The vine growth form may also enable plants to colonize large areas quickly, even without climbing high. This is the case with periwinkle and ground ivy. It is also an adaptation to life in areas where small patches of fertile soil are adjacent to exposed areas with more sunlight but little or no soil.
This insect is a pest of grapes and other berry fruits; larvae feed on and pupate in berries. Invasion of this exotic moth may disrupt Michigan’s grape and other fruit production and marketing.Michigan risk maps for exotic plant pests. Plant hosts The moth is best known as a pest of grapes (Vitis vinifera), though it is polyphagous and has a wide host range across 27 plant families. Other plant hosts include carnations, black berries, cherries, currants, lilacs, nectarines and plums. See Venette et al.
Flowers of Pueraria montana. Kudzu (/ˈkʊdzuː/ , also called Japanese arrowroot) is a group of plants in the genus Pueraria, in the pea family Fabaceae, subfamily Faboideae. They are climbing, coiling, and trailing perennial vines native to much of eastern Asia, Southeast Asia, and some Pacific islands. The name comes from the Japanese name for the plants, kuzu (クズ or 葛) , which was written kudzu in historical romanizations. Where these plants are naturalized, they can be invasive and are considered noxious weeds. The plant climbs over trees or shrubs and grows so rapidly that it kills them by heavy shading.
2011). Common name: European grapevine moth, grape berry moth. Selected Resources. Native To: Italy (Zalom et al. 2011). Date of U.S. Introduction: First specimen recorded in Napa County, California in 2009 (Gilligan et al. 2011). Means of Introduction: Unknown (Gilligan et al
European grapevine moth Lobesia botrana Michigan State University’s invasive species factsheets Prepared by T. Noma, M. Colunga-Garcia, M. Brewer, J. Landis, and A. Gooch as a part of Michigan State University IPM Program and M. Philip of Michigan Department of Agriculture. Plant hosts The moth is best known as a pest of grapes (Vitis vinifera), though it is polyphagous and has a wide host range across 27 plant families. Other plant hosts include carnations, black berries, cherries, currants, lilacs, nectarines and plums. See Venette et al.
2003). This insect is listed as an exotic organism of high invasive risk to the United States (USDA-APHIS 2008). Plant hosts The moth is best known as a pest of grapes (Vitis vinifera), though it is polyphagous and has a wide host range across 27 plant families. Other plant hosts include carnations, black berries, cherries, currants, lilacs, nectarines and plums. See Venette et al.