Plexus XFactor is a turbocharged multivitamin and antioxidant supplement with a never-before-seen formulation of a patented aloe blend, New Zealand Blackcurrant, and vitamins. All of which results in vastly improved absorption and assimilation for optimal nutrition and wellness protection.*.
Plexus X Factor multivitamin is a turbo-charged antioxidant supplement that has a patented aloe blend of New Zealand Blackcurrant with vitamins and minerals to give the body an overall good feeling.
Plexus Block does just what it’s name suggests—it blocks absorption of starches and sugars up to 48%, therefore promoting healthy blood sugar levels and contributing to an enhanced state of overall wellness.*.
Plexus Slim is a powdered dietary supplement that is mixed with water to help you burn calories and fat while on the go.
Plexus Slim is a natural drink that contains a variety of plant extracts. It is helpful in balancing blood sugar, hormones, cholesterol, and lipids. Many have had success with relief from auto-immune issues (such as those connected with Hashimoto’s, and psoriasis) fibromyalgia, and chronic fatigue.
Plexus Slim is a powdered drink packet that adds weight-loss ingredients to a bottle of water. The product is made up of green coffee bean, garcinia cambogia and alpha lipoic acid. You can drink the supplement twice daily, but that means you’ll only get 15 days worth of supplement in a single order.
Plexus Worldwide studies suggest that the majority of multi-vitamin products are of poor quality and difficult for the body’s digestive tract to break down, digest and absorb. Plexus, is a world-recognized leader in the health and nutritional industries, and has developed a breakthrough in vitamin-mineral supplements.
Facts: - Plexus studies shows that people that took Vitamin C with Aloe absorbed 304% more than when taking it with water. – Plexus studies shows that people that took vitamin E, and oil based vitamin, absorbed 369% more than when taking it with just water.
Plexus X Factor is a turbocharged multivitamin and antioxidant supplement with a never-before-seen formulation of a patented aloe blend, New Zealand Blackcurrant, and vitamins and minerals—all of which results in vastly improved absorption and assimilation for optimal nutrition and wellness protection.
The Plexus Slim Accelerator contains trace minerals (they don’t say which minerals), calcium and magnesium from seaweed (both are useless for weight loss) and vitamin B6 (useless for weight loss).