Octopus Tattoo Meaning – Symbolism and Pictures. March 17, 2014 by Andrew Jack Leave a Comment. Octopus Tattoo meaning – some of the main meanings of the octopus tattoos are: adaptability, intelligence and graceful. The octopus is also related with agility (like a small lizard or alligator) and protection/flexibility. 1 If you are ready to learn, yet intelligent, the octopus tattoo is probably good for you. 2  Kraken symbolism: along the history, the octopus played an important role and symbolism. 3  These Kraken were legendary sea monsters (octopuses). 4  It is said that these giant octopuses were attacking ships.
An octopus (/ˈɒktəpʊs/ or /ˈɒktəpəs/ ; plural: octopuses, octopi, or octopodes; see below) is a cephalopod mollusc of the order Octopoda. It has two eyes and four pairs of arms and, like other cephalopods, it is bilaterally symmetric. An octopus has a beak, with its mouth at the center point of the arms. All octopuses are venomous, but only one group, the blue-ringed octopus, is known to be deadly to humans. Around 300 species are recognized, which is over one-third of the total number of known cephalopod species.
Octopus Tattoo Meaning. It is the deep symbolism of the octopus and varied design possibilities that make it an interesting choice for a tattoo. This write-up will provide information on octopus tattoo meaning and design ideas
Octopus influence in Popular Culture. The Octopus is a creature like no other, and you will find plenty of early stories dating back hundreds of years. Many at sea referred to the Octopus as the eight legged sea monster. They were afraid of it and stories circulated about it tipping over boats and taking humans in its arms
The Legend of the Octopus is a sports tradition during Detroit Red Wings home playoff games where octopuses are thrown onto the ice surface. 
The meaning behind any tattoo is personal and individual. Tattoos during certain times of history in specific areas of the world, or within specific subcultures could have had or could have specific cultural meaning(s). If you want a tattoo of an Octopus, get a tattoo of an Octopus. Decide for yourself what it means to you. An octopus symbolizes complexity, diversity, mystery, vision, intelligence, illusion, variability and insight. [1].
An octopus symbolizes complexity, diversity, mystery, vision, intelligence, illusion, variability and insight. An octopus can camouflage itself when it feels threatened, and can avoid the dangers as it creates an illusion by blending into the surroundings. Octopus are invertebrates. An octopus symbolizes complexity, diversity, mystery, vision, intelligence, illusion, variability and insight. [1].
Octopus is naturally high in iron, providing all of the necessary iron for men and nearly half of the recommended amount for women. Iron is a trace mineral, meaning you only need small amounts each day. This mineral is a carrier of oxygen and transports oxygen to cells, tissues and vital organs. 