Ask a Doctor Online Now! This occurs when fluid from the glomerular capillaries pass into the Bowman’s capsule. This is fairly non-selective meaning that almost all of the substances in the the blood except cells and plasma proteins as well as the substances bound to these proteins enter the nephron. 
Bowman's capsule (or the Bowman capsule, capsula glomeruli, or glomerular capsule) is a cup-like sac at the beginning of the tubular component of a nephron in the mammalian kidney that performs the first step in the filtration of blood to form urine. (June 2011). Bowman's capsule (or the Bowman capsule, capsula glomeruli, or glomerular capsule) is a cup-like sac at the beginning of the tubular component of a nephron in the mammalian kidney that performs the first step in the filtration of blood to form urine. A glomerulus is enclosed in the sac. Fluids from blood in the glomerulus are collected in the Bowman's capsule (i.e., glomerular filtrate) and further processed along the nephron to form urine. This process is known as ultrafiltration
The blood plasma is filtered through the capillaries of the glomerulus into the capsule. The Bowman's capsule empties the filtrate into the proximal tubule that is also part of the nephron. A glomerulus receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation. The glomerulus is a tuft of small blood vessels called capillaries located within Bowman's capsule within the kidney. Between the capillaries and Bowman's capsule lies mesangium.
A glomerulus is a network (as a tuft) of capillaries located at the beginning of a nephron in the kidney. It serves as the first stage in the filtering process of the blood carried out by the nephron in its formation of urine. The glomerulus is a tuft of small blood vessels called capillaries located within Bowman's capsule within the kidney. Between the capillaries and Bowman's capsule lies mesangium.
The renal plexus regulates renal blood flow by adjusting the diameter of renal arterioles and influencing the urine-forming role of the nephrons. Each nephron consists of a renal corpuscle composed of a tuft of capillaries (the glomerulus), surrounded by a glomerular capsule (Bowman s capsule) and a renal tubule. Nephrons are the structural and functional units of the kidneys that carry out processes that form urine
FILTRATION IN GLOMERULUS. 1. One of the capillary networks that are part of the renal corpuscles in the nephrons of the kidney. Each is surrounded by a Bowman's capsule, the site of renal (glomerular) filtration, which is the first step in the formation of urine. See: illustration. 2. The glomerulus is an integral part of the nephron, the basic unit of the kidney. Each nephron is capable of forming urine by itself, and each kidney has many nephrons. The specific function of each glomerulus is to bring blood (and the waste products it carries) to the nephron.
Kidney Filtration. In the nephron, approximately 20 percent of the blood gets filtered under pressure through the walls of the glomerular capillaries and Bowman's capsule.
The renal tubule is the portion of the nephron containing the tubular fluid filtered through the glomerulus. After passing through the renal tubule, the filtrate continues to the collecting duct system. The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine.