1 Resolution (audio) , a measure of digital audio quality. 2  Resolution (debate) , the statement which is debated in policy debate. 3  Resolution (law) , a written motion adopted by a deliberative body. 
Measurement Resolution. The resolution of a gage is the smallest unit of measure that the gage is able to read. In our pencil and ruler example, the resolution is 1/8 of an inch (0.125). GUIDELINE: A gage should have a resolution of less than 10% of the specification tolerance. Example: The specification for pencil length is 2.000 ± 0.125.
Bandwidth Changes Resolution. 15 kHz Output Noise. 100 Hz Filtered Output Noise. Resolution is defined as the smallest reliable measurement that a system can make and is essentially a measurement of electrical noise in the output. 
Measurement is the assignment of a number to a characteristic of an object or event, which can be compared with other objects or events. 
A small δ implies good resolution -- the measurement system can discriminate between artifacts that are close together in value. A large δ implies poor resolution -- the measurement system can only discriminate between artifacts that are far apart in value. Resolution as stated in the manufacturer's specifications is usually a function of the least-significant digit (LSD) of the instrument and other factors such as timing mechanisms. This value should be checked in the laboratory under actual conditions of measurement.
Resolution. In coating thickness measurement, the resolution of an instrument is the smallest increment that the gage displays. Resolution for DeFelsko instruments ranges from 0.01 to 1 mil (0.5 to 20 m) depending on the thickness and type of instrument. An accuracy statement predicts the ability of a coating thickness gage to measure the true thickness of a coating to be measured. Accuracy statements provide the performance capability across the full functional measurement range of the gage.
Accuracy is a measure of the magnitude of error between the result of a measurement and the true thickness of the item being measured. An accuracy statement predicts the ability of a coating thickness gage to measure the true thickness of a coating to be measured. Accuracy statements provide the performance capability across the full functional measurement range of the gage.
If we have a nominal measurement value of 10 and an instrument resolution of 0.001, it would be expressed as 10.000. If there is an accuracy specification of 0.01% associated with this instrument, any value measured should fall within 10 +/- 0.01% or 10.001 and 9.999 with 0.001 instrument resolution. 
User Guide. This bit to measurement resolution converter will calculate the reading resolution of a digital measurement device and display the answer in number of steps, percentage of full span, parts per million and decimal ratio. 
Resolution (MSA) is the ability of the measurement system to detect and faithfully indicate small changes in the characteristic of the measurement result. Definition from (MSA) manual. Resolution as stated in the manufacturer's specifications is usually a function of the least-significant digit (LSD) of the instrument and other factors such as timing mechanisms. This value should be checked in the laboratory under actual conditions of measurement.