Lymph nodes generally occur in groups along the larger lymphatic vessels. They are distributed throughout the body, but unlike other systems they lack the tissues of the central nervous system. 
1 Lymph nodes are important part of the immune system. 2  Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 3  Lymph nodes are regional, and each group of them corresponds to a particular region of the body and reflects abnormalities in that region. 1 Lymph nodes are located throughout the body, but visible and palpable only when they are enlarged or swollen. 2
Click to read more below. The mediastinal nodes are a group of lymph nodes located in the thoracic cavity of the body. These nodes play an important role in the filtration of lymph before it is returned to circulatory system. 
Our bodies have a network of lymph vessels and lymph nodes. (Lymph is pronounced limf.) This network is a part of the body’s immune system. It collects fluid, waste material, and other things (like viruses and bacteria) that are in the body tissues, outside the bloodstream. 
Thoracic lymph nodes. Thoracic lymph nodes are separated into two types: parietal lymph nodes located in the thoracic wall, and visceral lymph nodes, which are associated with the internal organs. Due to their location, abnormalities of the lymph nodes in the thorax, or chest, are not easily detected. The chest wall thoracic lymph nodes receive drainage from the breasts, arms, pectoral muscles, and other muscles and skin located in the upper section of the chest.
Lymph node: Also sometimes referred to as lymph glands, lymph nodes are small rounded or bean-shaped masses of lymphatic tissue surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue. Lymph nodes are located in many places in the lymphatic system throughout the body. Lymph nodes filter the lymphatic fluid and store special cells that can trap cancer cells or bacteria that are traveling through the body in the lymph fluid.
Common Causes for Swelling. Of the hundreds of lymph nodes located throughout the body, as stated before, not all of them are near the surface and will be notice when swollen. Keep in mind, the common cold and flu will cause ones along the neck to swell during the battle against the viral or bacterial infection. 1 Axillary – located in the underside of the arm and circulates lymph in the breast, chest, and upper abdomen. 2  Inguinal – found in the groin area and take care of genitals, lower limbs, and abdomen.
Lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are body organs (not glands) spread throughout your body. Their function is to filter out all the dead bacteria, viruses, and other dead tissue from the lymphatic fluid and eliminate it from the body. They are also the place where the white blood cells (lymphocytes) spend much of their time. 
Lymph nodes are small round organs that are part of the body’s lymphatic system. They are found widely throughout the body and are connected to one another by lymph vessels. Groups of lymph nodes are located in the neck, underarms, chest, abdomen, and groin. A clear fluid called lymph flows through lymph vessels and lymph nodes. Anatomy of the lymphatic system, showing the lymph vessels and lymph organs, including lymph nodes, tonsils, thymus, spleen, and bone marrow
Your lymphatic system comprises a network of organs, vessels and numerous lymph nodes situated throughout your body. Most of your lymph nodes are located in your head and neck region. Lymph nodes that frequently swell are in this area, as well as in your armpits and groin area. 