Fat in each of these areas has its own metabolic reaction, as well as its own contribution to disease. Researchers, however, have recently discovered that the amount of visceral fat is probably the best indicator of your risk for diabetes and heart disease. Individually, these conditions are problematic, but even more troubling in combination; you should be aware that in addition to an “early warning sign” of diabetes, metabolic syndrome can also be an indication of impending
We need to look at intake of sugars, added fats, fast food, and meals out.”. Emphasizing lean proteins, vegetables, fruits, heart-healthy fats and omega-3s, high-fiber foods, and appropriate portions can help manage or prevent illnesses associated with thyroid disease. As Schneider notes, “It’s eating for prevention of all these diseases that accompany thyroid disease: heart disease, diabetes, cancer, and more.” As an added bonus, fiber can relieve constipation that people with hypothyroidism often experience.
Green tea is rich in antioxidants. Green vegetables: Garden fresh vegetables like asparagus, broccoli, spinach and avocados are high in minerals, protein and iron content which provide you with truckloads of energy to fulfill your daily requirements and keep you going. (More: Go green to boost metabolism). The iron content facilitates the flow of oxygen throughout the body which further helps in boosting metabolism and energy production. Also, include whole grains in your diet as they require extra energy to break down and digest and help in burning fat. Nuts and Seeds: Dry fruits are a powerhouse of energy.
Using more fruits and vegetables along with whole grains and lean meats, nuts, and beans is a safe and healthy one. Helping control your weight is not the only benefit of eating more fruits and vegetables. Diets rich in fruits and vegetables may reduce the risk of some types of cancer and other chronic diseases. Fruits and vegetables also provide essential vitamins and minerals, fiber, and other substances that are important for good health. 
Lentils and Whole Grains: Lentils are a great source of proteins, carbohydrates and fiber that helps in good digestion. The iron content facilitates the flow of oxygen throughout the body which further helps in boosting metabolism and energy production. Also, include whole grains in your diet as they require extra energy to break down and digest and help in burning fat. Nuts and Seeds: Dry fruits are a powerhouse of energy.
This is best obtained through whole grains (bran cereals are excellent fiber sources), berries, nuts, legumes, fruits with the skin and pulp, raw vegetables, et cetera. Avoid fried and processed foods, in favor of whole foods, lots of fresh fruits and veggies, and lean protein. Individually, these conditions are problematic, but even more troubling in combination; you should be aware that in addition to an “early warning sign” of diabetes, metabolic syndrome can also be an indication of impending heart disease.
1 Eat More Fiber. 2  Eat more unprocessed fruits, whole grains, nuts, avocado and vegetables early in the day. 3  These fiber-rich foods make you feel fuller longer. 4  Cruciferous veggies (from the cabbage family) are a good source of fiber as well. 1 Eat Often. 2  Eat smaller amounts of foods more frequently. 3  For example, instead of eating 1 or 2 large meals a day, have a small meal or snack every 3 to 4 hours. 4  This will help you maintain energy and optimal nutrient levels.
1 Cereal. 2  Cereal makes a great breakfast and a good snack during the day if you choose whole grain options with low sugar. 3  An ideal cereal contains at least 3.5 grams of fiber per serving. 4  Add dark fruits such as berries or raisins for more nutrition. 1 Eat Often. 2  Eat smaller amounts of foods more frequently. 3  For example, instead of eating 1 or 2 large meals a day, have a small meal or snack every 3 to 4 hours. 4  This will help you maintain energy and optimal nutrient levels.
1 Eat more fresh fruits and veggies. 2  They are full of carotenoids, which help protect against cancer and the metabolic syndrome. 3  Some examples of a serving size is 1/2 a cup of fruits and vegetables, 1 cup of leafy greens, 1/4 cup of dried fruit, and 6 ounces of fruit or veggie juice. 1 Eat Often. 2  Eat smaller amounts of foods more frequently. 3  For example, instead of eating 1 or 2 large meals a day, have a small meal or snack every 3 to 4 hours. 4  This will help you maintain energy and optimal nutrient levels.
1 Cereal makes a great breakfast and a good snack during the day if you choose whole grain options with low sugar. 2  An ideal cereal contains at least 3.5 grams of fiber per serving. 3  Add dark fruits such as berries or raisins for more nutrition. 1 Eat Often. 2  Eat smaller amounts of foods more frequently. 3  For example, instead of eating 1 or 2 large meals a day, have a small meal or snack every 3 to 4 hours. 4  This will help you maintain energy and optimal nutrient levels.