Changes in the size of your blood vessels is part of the flow of changes that happen when you get a migraine headache. This is also why you may get a headache when flying, hiking, or even travelling to a new location. the dreaded barometric pressure headache! If you've ever had a barometric pressure headache, you know it can be really difficult to deal with. Let's take a quick look at the research that's out there on barometric pressure headache and see if we can limit your pain!
Please note: Headaches vary enormously in intensity, frequency and the degree to which they affect a person’s life. They can result from a variety of factors ranging from the completely harmless through to those caused by serious and life threatening medical conditions. If you begin to have unusual symptoms or are concerned in any way or before taking any medication, you are advised to consult a qualified medical practitioner. Many people arrive at the conclusion that they suffer from Barometric Pressure Headaches through a process of elimination, having initially had the medical profession rule out more serious
Coping. MayoClinic.com recommends that you keep a headache journal to cope with headaches that may be caused by changes in barometric pressure. List each incidence of a headache with information about when it occurs and how long it lasts. Indicate possible causes that include weather conditions. Sinus Headaches. Barometric pressure changes may lead to sinus headaches. Damp and cold weather may intensity pain in your sinuses and barometric pressure changes may trigger sinus headaches if your sinus cavities are slow to equalize air pressure inside your sinuses.
1.Keep track of the effects of weather on your headache. If you think pressure changes are a trigger for you, try keeping a diary of weather changes and headache pain. For this you'll want to get a decent barometer (preferably not the cheap ornamental one that you bought at the hardware store or department store). the dreaded barometric pressure headache! If you've ever had a barometric pressure headache, you know it can be really difficult to deal with. Let's take a quick look at the research that's out there on barometric pressure headache and see if we can limit your pain!
headaches is changes with the blood vessels and this is directly related to the pressure changes of the weather. In the past many people believed it was the actual weather conditions which were causing their headaches or migraines, but this is not the case. 
The best treatment for people who suffer frequent or severe migraine headaches is prevention. There are a number of things you can do to stop a migraine before it starts, which is best done by finding your personal triggers for migraines. 
A headache due to barometric pressure makes you feel sick and it takes a toll on your health. Read this article to know how to relieve such headaches. Advertisement. There are many different types of headaches like tension headache, migraine, sinus headache, etc. A barometric headache is a headache, which is triggered by change in weather conditions like high or low temperature or humidity, cloudy skies, etc. As a result, the blood vessels undergo expansion or contraction in an effort to adjust with the lowered level of oxygen. This change in the diameter of the blood vessels is often held responsible for a barometric pressure headache.
1 Mechanisms and biological responses which may account for a Barometric Pressure Headache. 2  The relationship between barometric pressure, weather conditions, altitude and risk of headaches. 3  How to treat and deal with a Barometric Pressure Headache effectively. 1 Symptoms and possible misdiagnosis. 2  Mechanisms and biological responses which may account for a Barometric Pressure Headache. 3  The relationship between barometric pressure, weather conditions, altitude and risk of headaches. 4  How to treat and deal with a Barometric Pressure Headache effectively.
Take a washcloth, damp it with cold water and pour a few drops of lavender oil and peppermint oil on it. Lie down and keep the washcloth on your forehead for 20-30 minutes to get the relief from this headache. Massage Therapy: Consult an experienced massage therapist to reduce barometric pressure headaches. He/she will give you a good massage on the painful spots of temple, scalp, neck and shoulders. This will promote blood circulation in these areas, which in turn has a relaxing effect on the pain. As a result, the blood vessels undergo expansion or contraction in an effort to adjust with the lowered level of oxygen. This change in the diameter of the blood vessels is often held responsible for a barometric pressure headache.