In the eighteenth century, William Trent founded a settlement, which became the city known as Trenton (Trent's town), and that morphed into a first name for boys. (James) Trent Olson is the only brother of the three Olson sisters; Trent Ford has been seen on Gosford Park, The West Wing and Vampire Diaries. 
Latin Meaning: The name Trent is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Trent is: Swift. American Meaning: The name Trent is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Trent is: Swift. English Meaning: The name Trent is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Trent is: Refers to the English river Trent. Surname
Trent /trent/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced trent. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Trent is gushing waters. Refers to the River Trent in England. Also nickname of Trenton. American Senator Trent Lott; football player Trent Dilfer. Trent is a very prominent first name for males (#510 out of 1220, Top 42%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#1759 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Trent for boys
Etymology & Historical Origin-Trent. There are two possible etymologies for the name Trent. One is the transferred use of an English surname derived from the River Trent which flows through the midlands of England. The river’s name comes from Celtic words “tros” meaning ‘over’ and “hynt” meaning ‘way’ which is often translated to mean ‘the trespasser’ (given the river’s propensity to flood). Trent is a name that has never been trendy or overused. It has a strong one-syllable sound which feels very masculine. It can also be used as a pet form of Trenton which gives the name a more formal sound. Trent is also very similar to Brent – both names are unpretentious, straight-forward and confident.
From a surname which originally denoted someone who lived by the River Trent in England. Trent is also a city in Italy, though the etymology is unrelated. 
Origin of the name Trent: Transferred use of the English surname meaning dweller by the river Trent.. The origin of the river name is uncertain and speculative. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Meaning of Trent. English name. In English, the name Trent means-thirty. Other origins for the name Trent include-English, Welsh.The name Trent is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-thirty. Origin-England
[ 1 syll. tren (t), tr-e- nt ] The baby boy name Trent is pronounced as TRahNT †. Trent is an English and Welsh name of Old English and English origin. The first name is derived from the surname, itself originally a byname for someone living along the river Trent in northwest England. Trent is fairly popular as a baby name for boys. The name rose in popularity from the 1950s up to the 2000s; prior to that, it was of irregular use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 2001, 0.083% of baby boys were given the name Trent. It ranked at #208 then.
In most cases the modern surname is from a topographical name for someone who lived on the banks of any of the several rivers named Trent, in Staffordshire, Derbyshire, and Dorset, for instance. In some cases the modern surname Trent may be locational in origin, from the village in Dorset so named. One John Trent was an early emigrant to the American colonies, leaving London on the Plaine Joan in May 1635, bound for Virginia.