Sapphire is the most precious and valuable blue gemstone. It is a very desirable gemstone due to its excellent color, hardness, durability, and luster. In the gem trade, Sapphire without any color prefix refers to the blue variety of the mineral Corundum. An exotic type of sapphire, known as Color Changing Sapphire, displays a different color depending on its lighting. In natural light, Color Changing Sapphire is blue, but in artificial light, it is violet. (This effect is the same phenomenon well-known in the gemstone Alexandrite).
These different types of sapphires and their colors are because of traces of titanium, chromium, vanadium and iron found in these gemstones. These are the most popular of all sapphires and sapphires are synonymous with those having the blue color. That is why these are often known only as sapphires without any preface for its color. The finest of these come from regions of Mogok in Burma, Sri Lanka and also the Kashmir area in India.
1 Cornflower blue is the most desirable color in a Sapphire. 2  Fancy Sapphire-Describing any Sapphire with a color other than blue. 3  Kashmir Sapphire-Sapphire with an intense, velvety-blue color, described from the Kashmir Province of India. 4  Kashmir Sapphire is considered to have the finest color of all Sapphire. An exotic type of sapphire, known as Color Changing Sapphire, displays a different color depending on its lighting. In natural light, Color Changing Sapphire is blue, but in artificial light, it is violet. (This effect is the same phenomenon well-known in the gemstone Alexandrite).
Even the same gemstone can occur in many different colors: sapphires show different shades of blue and pink and fancy sapphires exhibit a whole range of other colors from yellow to orange-pink, the latter called  padparadscha sapphire . For example, ruby is the red variety of the species corundum, while any other color of corundum is considered sapphire. Other examples are the Emerald (green), aquamarine (blue), red beryl (red), goshenite (colorless), heliodor (yellow), and morganite (pink), which are all varieties of the mineral species beryl.
The sapphire is one of the three gem-varieties of corundum, the other two being ruby (defined as corundum in a shade of red) and padparadscha (a pinkish orange variety). Color change sapphires come from a variety of locations, including Thailand and Tanzania. The color-change effect is caused by the interaction of the sapphire, which absorbs specific wavelengths of light, and the light-source, whose spectral output varies depending upon the illuminant.
The most valuable color of Sapphire is a cornflower blue color, known as Kashmir Sapphire or Cornflower Blue Sapphire. Another extremely valuable Sapphire form is the very rare, orange-pink Padparadschah. An exotic type of sapphire, known as Color Changing Sapphire, displays a different color depending on its lighting. In natural light, Color Changing Sapphire is blue, but in artificial light, it is violet. (This effect is the same phenomenon well-known in the gemstone Alexandrite).
Each sapphire uses the preface of its color for the name so you have the yellow sapphire, blue pink, purple, green, white and orange sapphire and the red sapphire is of course called as Ruby. One of the most exotic sapphires that come in orange-pink shade is called as Padparadscha sapphire. These are the most popular of all sapphires and sapphires are synonymous with those having the blue color. That is why these are often known only as sapphires without any preface for its color. The finest of these come from regions of Mogok in Burma, Sri Lanka and also the Kashmir area in India.
Trace amounts of elements such as iron, titanium, chromium, copper, or magnesium can give corundum respectively blue, yellow, purple, orange, or green color. Chromium impurities in corundum yield pink or red tint, the latter being called ruby. Commonly, sapphires are worn in jewelry. Color change sapphires come from a variety of locations, including Thailand and Tanzania. The color-change effect is caused by the interaction of the sapphire, which absorbs specific wavelengths of light, and the light-source, whose spectral output varies depending upon the illuminant.
A rare variety of natural sapphire, known as color-change sapphire, exhibits different colors in different light. Color change sapphires are blue in outdoor light and purple under incandescent indoor light, or green to gray-green in daylight and pink to reddish-violet in incandescent light. Color change sapphires come from a variety of locations, including Thailand and Tanzania. The color-change effect is caused by the interaction of the sapphire, which absorbs specific wavelengths of light, and the light-source, whose spectral output varies depending upon the illuminant.
Deep blue and cornflower blue are the two types or kinds of blue sapphires. The intensity of this blue color is what determines the value of the gem. These blue sapphires look exquisite under all light sources. Among all the sapphires one of the largest known blue sapphire is called the Logan sapphire. These are the most popular of all sapphires and sapphires are synonymous with those having the blue color. That is why these are often known only as sapphires without any preface for its color. The finest of these come from regions of Mogok in Burma, Sri Lanka and also the Kashmir area in India.