This is a great light show to take the Family to. Located right here in our Community. Take Honeysuckle past Ramsey, North on Torrie ln., at the first Round-a-bout go take a left and it's straight ahead! Back in facing the house. Tune your radio in and sit back and enjoy!. If anyone feels led to help this Family with their new beginning contact Family Promise of North Idaho. Thank you Coeur d'Alene Community for being one of the most caring, supportive, and loving Communities in the World! What a great place to live.
Eyeballing the images further, I was looking for any hint of field curvature in the Biogon 35/2. For the most part, field curvature is not that much of a problem with focal lengths over 50mm and so more often than not I skip these tests. For focal lengths 24mm and below, field curvature becomes a noticeable problem for all, but the best designs out there. Page 2 of 5. Resolution. When considering Biogon 35/2, most users seem to compare it to either Summicron 35/2 ASPH or Summicron 35/2 v4. Biogon 35/2 is a newer design and employs a more complex optical formula than either of the Summicrons - 9 elements in 6 groups vs 7 elements in 5 groups. However, more complex optics does not necessarily mean better image quality
During times of trauma, there are countless emotional and physical challenges we must face. One such challenge is a thorough clean-up of any affected area. BIOGONE is a professional hazardous cleanup and removal company that specializes in private, commercial and municipal operations. Our trained professionals will perform all cleanup and removal required to restore your area to a healthy reusable environment. 
It looks like a beautiful day for ARTWALK! From 5-8 stop by The Art Spirit Gallery and meet their featured artist Kyle Paliotto and stroll through 11 galleries for a lively time in downtown Coeur d'Alene. If anyone feels led to help this Family with their new beginning contact Family Promise of North Idaho. Thank you Coeur d'Alene Community for being one of the most caring, supportive, and loving Communities in the World! What a great place to live.
A Coeur d'Alene pub put the alcohol on hold Thursday to serve up free Thanksgiving meals. The Fedora Pub and Grille had more than a thousand people from all walks of life come through the door for dinner. If anyone feels led to help this Family with their new beginning contact Family Promise of North Idaho. Thank you Coeur d'Alene Community for being one of the most caring, supportive, and loving Communities in the World! What a great place to live.
Professional-Grade Bio-Gone disperses and removes biofilms that foul cooling towers, heat exchangers and other processing equipment. Biofilm buildup reduces the cooling system’s efficiency, causing it to work harder and require more maintenance. PRODUCT LABEL HASSLE FREE BUSINESS SINCE 1967 © 2010 Continental Research Corporation. [073010] DIRECTIONS: Apply diluted solution at a rate based upon severity of biofilm and deposit buildup.
Biogon is a brand name of Carl Zeiss for a series of photographic camera lenses. Biogons are typically wide angle lenses. The first Biogon (2.8 / 3.5 cm, unbalanced) was created in 1935 by Ludwig Bertele, then referenced by designer Zeiss Ikon Dresden, the Contax created as a modification of the then Sonnar. The lenses of the type Super-Angulon (Schneider Kreuznach, Leica Camera) are based on the construction of the Biogon. 1  Biogon 1:2,8 f=21 mm, 90° Angle (PDF-File; 65 kB). 2  Biogon 1:4,5 f=21 mm, T* Classic, 90° Anglel (PDF-File; 282 kB). 3  Biogon 1:2,8 f=25 mm, 82° Angle (PDF-File; 292 kB).
Call a physician if any difficulties persist. EYE CONTACT: Flush eyes with a large amount of water for 15 minutes. Seek medical attention immedi-ately if any irritation persists. After first aid, get appropriate in-plant, paramedic or community medical support. SKIN CONTACT: Wash affected areas thoroughly with soap and water for at least 15 minutes. Seek medical attention if any irritation persists. PRODUCT LABEL HASSLE FREE BUSINESS SINCE 1967 © 2010 Continental Research Corporation. [073010] DIRECTIONS: Apply diluted solution at a rate based upon severity of biofilm and deposit buildup.