The Electronic Municipal Market Access system, or EMMA®, is the official repository for information on virtually all municipal securities. EMMA provides free public access to official disclosures, trade data, credit ratings, educational materials and other information about the municipal securities market. EMMA is a service of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB). The MSRB protects investors, state and local governments and other municipal entities, and the public interest by promoting a fair and efficient
1 Emma (novel) , an 1815 novel by Jane Austen. 2  Emma (series) , a series of children's books by Sally Warner about a third grade girl. 3  Emma Brown, fragment of a novel by Charlotte Bronte, brontë completed By Clare boylan in. 4  2003 (emma) , play a 1976 play By Howard zinn About Emma.  goldman 1 Emma (series) , a series of children's books by Sally Warner about a third grade girl. 2  Emma Brown, fragment of a novel by Charlotte Bronte, brontë completed By Clare boylan in. 3  2003 (emma) , play a 1976 play By Howard zinn About Emma. 4  Goldman (Emma kenyon) , novel a 1955 novel By. F. W.  kenyon
1 Emma (novel) , an 1815 novel by Jane Austen. 2  Emma (series) , a series of children's books by Sally Warner about a third grade girl. 3  Emma Brown, fragment of a novel by Charlotte Bronte, brontë completed By Clare boylan in.  2003 1 Emma (series) , a series of children's books by Sally Warner about a third grade girl. 2  Emma Brown, fragment of a novel by Charlotte Bronte, brontë completed By Clare boylan in. 3  2003 (emma) , play a 1976 play By Howard zinn About Emma. 4  Goldman (Emma kenyon) , novel a 1955 novel By. F. W.  kenyon
(December 2014). The Electronic Municipal Market Access (EMMA) system, operated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), serves as the official source for municipal securities disclosures and related market data. EMMA's disclosure collection operates in coordination with the MSRB's investor protection rules mandating that securities firms and banks selling municipal securities to customers provide them with complete disclosure of all important information about the investment.
Teutonic Meaning: The name Emma is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Emma is: Nurse. English Meaning: The name Emma is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Emma is: Whole; complete. German Meaning: The name Emma is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Emma is: Whole. Complete.
EMMA provides investors, state and local governments and other market participants with key information about municipal securities, free of charge. The information on EMMA is presented in an easy to use format that is available to the general public. Search EMMA for information about bonds and notes. EMMA is a service of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB). The MSRB protects investors, state and local governments and other municipal entities, and the public interest by promoting a fair and efficient municipal securities market.
Welcome to EMMA. EMMA is the official repository for information on virtually all municipal bonds, providing free public access to official disclosures, trade data and other information about the municipal securities market. Moody's Credit Ratings Now Available on EMMA®. EMMA is now the go-to source for free access to ratings from the largest municipal securities ratings agencies.
Notes: Emma is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Emma is universal. It can also be used as the diminutive form of Emily. Common nicknames include Em and Emmy. Emma is a very popular name in the United States as well as abroad, particularly in the United Kingdom. Famous Emmas include many A-list actresses, including Emma (Emily) Stone, Emma Roberts, Emma Thompson, and Emma Watson. Emma Lazarus is a famous American poet and Emma “Baby Spice” Bunton is a British singer and member of the popular band The Spice Girls.
The name Emma is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Emma is: Universal. American Meaning: The name Emma is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Emma is: Universal. The name Emma is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Emma is: Whole; complete. German Meaning: The name Emma is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Emma is: Whole. Complete.