Donating furniture like mattresses to a tax exempt organization or charity can have tax benefits. First you will need to make sure they qualify in order to justify your deduction. You will need to determine the fair market value and document it.
If you can’t find a recycler near you that will accept your old mattress, you can also take it apart and recycle the component materials yourself. Some mattress materials, such as the steel coils, can actually make you money at the recycling center. Keep in mind that mattresses are very difficult to disassemble.
Wrong. You can prolong the life of your old bed by donating it to charity. Donate your old bed to help an individual or family through a tough time. Donating an old bed or mattress is the ecologically responsible choice, too. Our landfills don’t need more of our stuff, particularly things that can have a second life in the hands of someone else. Before you let the deliverymen haul off your old bed and mattress, find out if they’re just going to be dumping them.
If you have a mattress or box spring you wish to donate but do not wish to purchase a new mattress through Sleep Country, or if you are looking for a gently used mattress or box spring, please contact one of your local registered charities for assistance.
Donate a mattress to a battered women’s shelter or refugee center. Donate a mattress to a homeless shelter. Donate a bed to an individual in transition, trying to get back on his feet. Your former bed can help someone else rest easier at night.
Some local branches of the Salvation Army and Goodwill, for example, accept donations of mattresses and box springs, provided that the items are clean and free of stains, holes or other damage, and some branches also offer free pick up.
When donating your used mattress set, be honest in your posting or to the organization that is going to accept it. Recipients don’t want someone else’s bugs, stains, or worn and torn bed. When posting online include pictures that show the beds shape which will help to increase interest.