Today, vibrations caused by the shock waves are still used to detect any movement, but the equipment is far more sophisticated. Many modern examples are so delicate that they are installed underground away from other sources of vibration such as traffic and even footsteps. The Mercalli scale is based on direct observations of this type. During a series of earthquakes in the Mississippi Valley, USA during 1811 and 1812 people were awakened by the rattling of ornaments and walls, and church bells in Boston, almost 2000km away, rung unattended due to the vibrations.
A tsunami warning system (TWS) is used to detect tsunamis in advance and issue warnings to prevent loss of life and damage. It is made up of two equally important components: a network of sensors to detect tsunamis and a communications infrastructure to issue timely alarms to permit evacuation of the coastal areas. 
Seismometers are instruments that measure motion of the ground, including those of seismic waves generated by earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other seismic sources. Records of seismic waves allow seismologists to map the interior of the Earth, and locate and measure the size of these different sources. Seismograph is another Greek term from seismos seismós and, γράφω, graphō gráphō. To draw it is often used to, mean seismometer though it is more applicable to the older instruments in which the measuring and recording of ground motion were combined than to, modern systems in which these functions. are separated
What is a seismograph. A seismograph, or seismometer, is an instrument used to detect and record seismic waves. Seismic waves are propagating vibrations that carry energy from the source of an earthquake outward in all directions. They travel through the interior of the Earth and can be measured with sensitive detectors called seismographs. Video: How a seismograph works. The magnitude of an earthquake is determined by readings of the seismic waves resulting from the vibrations generated by the seismic source. Sensitive seismographs, which greatly magnify these ground motions, can detect strong earthquakes from sources anywhere in the world.
seismograph. A seismograph, or seismometer, is an instrument used to detect and record earthquakes. Generally, it consists of a mass attached to a fixed base. During an earthquake, the base moves and the mass does not. The motion of the base with respect to the mass is commonly transformed into an electrical voltage. 
A seismograph is the device that scientists use to measure earthquakes. The goal of a seismograph is to accurately record the motion of the ground during a quake. If you live in a city, you may have noticed that buildings sometimes shake when a big truck or a subway train rolls by. Seismographs detect earthquakes and what they do is they show on a graph what movements the earthquake made. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seismograph...
Report Abuse. Seismometers (in Greek seismos = earthquake and metero = measure) are used by seismologists to measure and record the size and force of seismic waves. By studying seismic waves, geologists can map the interior of the Earth, and measure and locate earthquakes and other ground motions. Best Answer: Seismographs and other kinds of seismometers, generally, although there is a pretty wide variety of those and how they function. The old fashioned kind have a weight suspended pendulum-style that remains stationary, and have a slowly rolling drum or roll of paper (usually) underneath the pendulum.
Detecting an earthquake is much easier than predicting one. At its most simple level, a powerful earthquake can be felt by people in the area, and the damage it causes can be seen. The Mercalli scale is based on direct observations of this type. During a series of earthquakes in the Mississippi Valley, USA during 1811 and 1812 people were awakened by the rattling of ornaments and walls, and church bells in Boston, almost 2000km away, rung unattended due to the vibrations.