A hierarchical system is used for classifying organisms to the species level. This system is called taxonomic classification. The broadest classifications are by domain and kingdom; the most specific classification is by genus and species. The hierarchical groupings in between include phylum, class, family, and order.
Linnaeus's taxonomy system has two main features that contribute to its ease of use in naming and grouping organisms. The first is the use of binomial nomenclature. This means that an organism's scientific name is comprised of a combination of two terms. These terms are the genus name and the species or epithet.
The classification and naming of organisms in an ordered system that is intended to indicate natural relationships, especially evolutionary relationships. 2. The science, laws, or principles of classification. 3. An ordered arrangement of groups or categories: a taxonomy of literary genres.
The second feature of Linnaeus's taxonomy system that simplifies organism classification is the ordering of species into broad categories. The major categories include: Kingdom, Phylum, Class, Order, Family, Genus, and Species. These categories have been updated to include Domain in the taxonomic hierarchy.
1. The classification and naming of organisms in an ordered system that is intended to indicate natural relationships, especially evolutionary relationships. 2. The science, laws, or principles of classification. 3. An ordered arrangement of groups or categories: a taxonomy of literary genres.
The classification system in biology is a system which helps scientists organize or name different things and types of objects and organisms. Taxonomy is the classification system for grouping and naming living things under their main domain category (see related questions about the Domain category of classification).
Best Answer: Taxonomy is the science of classifying organisms. The system currently used by taxonomists is called the Linnaean taxonomic system, in honor of Swedish biologist Carolus Linnaeus (1707 — 1778). The Linnaean system breaks down organisms into seven major divisions, called taxa (singular: taxon).