Kelp has one of the fastest growth rates of any of the marine plants (up to 60 cm per day or 3 kg of dry weight per square metre of habitat per day recorded for the Giant Kelp) and this makes it an important primary producer supplying food into nearshore and intertidal marine habitats. The long fronds of bull kelp, that are often packed tightly around the lower shore, absorb much of the energy from the waves crashing on the coast, creating a lower energy environment where marine life abounds.
Cool Facts. Giant kelp is harvested as a source of algin, an emulsifying and binding agent used in the production of many foods and cosmetics, like ice cream, toothpaste and cereals. Pieces of decomposing kelp (detritus) sink to the depths of the ocean, providing food for deep sea creatures. 
Bull kelp is an annual seaweed—meaning it grows from a spore to maturity within a single year. It grows quickly, sometimes 10 inches (25 cm) in one day. Bull kelp reproduces by spores in spore patches (sori), which are heavy enough to fall to the ocean floor. This ensures that spores settle close to parent plants and on suitable substrate. Winter storms wash spent bull kelp onto beaches where the plants dry and turn brown
Both bull kelp and giant kelp have very buoyant fronds that are capable of supporting whole plants at sea for considerable periods of time. Bull kelp, in particular, is exceptionally buoyant and has been documented to carry boulders weighing up to 75 kg from the lower to upper shore at Macquarie Island. The long fronds of bull kelp, that are often packed tightly around the lower shore, absorb much of the energy from the waves crashing on the coast, creating a lower energy environment where marine life abounds.
Kelp Forests. 4. Species Composition-Producers. The major species of algae that form the tallest kelp forests on the Tasmanian and Victorian coast is Giant Kelp, Macrocystis pyrifera, the same species as found in California, New Zealand and South America. These sea floor. A number of other species of algae also form forest like in southern Australia. Common Kelp, (Ecklonia radiata) is a species that is often found in large quantities after storms in piles along the beach and is found from W.A. to N.S.W.
Bull kelp forests offer protective shelter for young fishes and many invertebrates, such as sea urchins, sea stars, snails and crabs. Sea otters thrive in kelp forests too. It grows quickly, sometimes 10 inches (25 cm) in one day. Bull kelp reproduces by spores in spore patches (sori), which are heavy enough to fall to the ocean floor.
A kangaroo is a consumer, as they are grazers. A producer is an organism that would create its own food. E.g., a plant. A consumer is an organism that consumers another. E … .g. a kangaroo or a lion. A decomposer is a an organism that would consume the decaying matter of another organism. This includes saprotrophs, which live on their
In the kelp zone at Heard Island, one square metre of rocky shore may support up to 47 kelp plants, and over 200 kg of plant tissue. The bull kelp Durvillaea antarctica is thought to be the strongest kelp in the world and is able to withstand the massive seas that are characteristic of the Southern Ocean. The long fronds of bull kelp, that are often packed tightly around the lower shore, absorb much of the energy from the waves crashing on the coast, creating a lower energy environment where marine life abounds.
Although kelp plants have a strong root system, known as a holdfast, that attaches them to the substrate, wave strength in the Southern Ocean is such that plants are often torn from the bottom and flung onto adjacent beaches. The long fronds of bull kelp, that are often packed tightly around the lower shore, absorb much of the energy from the waves crashing on the coast, creating a lower energy environment where marine life abounds.
It's a plant, not an animal. Kelp do not eat sunlight, and kelp is NOT a plant. Kelp makes its own food by a process called photosynthesis. Kelp is a protist fro … m the kingdom of Protista, it is not a plant Good grief-kelp is a seaweed, not a protist. It is one of the brown algae, and indeed uses sunlight as the energy source to make its own food. Actually, it is a protist and it gets nutrients from