Height Calculator. This is a children's adult height prediction calculator based on the linear regression analysis method. Beside this calculator, another simply way to predict the adult height for a children is simply double the height achieved by the second birthday of the child. The growth rate will increase to a second height during the pubertal growth spurt. On average, female growth trails off to zero at about 15 years old, and male to 18 years old. In the United States the average height of male of age 20 or older is 1.763 m or 5 ft 9 1/2 in, female is 1.622 m or 5 ft 4 in.
Estimated Adult Height: If you don't enter or don't know the birth parent's height, we'll use the CDC's average height for a man or woman. Predicted heights are usually within 4 inches, taller or shorter, than actual adult height. Medical conditions and other factors can affect a child's growth. Estimates are less accurate when parent heights are far from average and for children who are short for their age. 
A simple method to predict adult height is to double the child's height at age 2. Girls develop more quickly, so doubling their height at 18 months old can also be used as an estimate of how tall they will be as adults. While this method has been around for a long time, no research exists to demonstrate its accuracy. The most accurate method of height prediction comes from using a child's bone age, determined by an X-ray of the hand, but there are several methods you can use at home to get an idea of how tall your child will eventually become.
Note: This is just a very rough estimate of the average height of how tall a child will be when fully grown. You can expect a margin of error of about four inches up or down. The taller the parents, the taller the child is likely to be; similarly, the shorter the parents, the shorter the child. The most accurate method of height prediction comes from using a child's bone age, determined by an X-ray of the hand, but there are several methods you can use at home to get an idea of how tall your child will eventually become.
Note, this calculator or tool provides an estimate of how tall a child will be as an adult. It might not be 100% accurate for all cases. Height depends on many factors such as genetics, nutrition, environment and health. A doctor or pediatrician should be consulted if you believe your child is too short or tall. 
Doubling a child's height at age 2 can provide an estimate of how tall that child will be in adulthood. (Boys are usually a little taller than that number and girls a little shorter.) That's because by 2 most children have reached the growth chart percentile they will stay on as they grow. Answer: A child's height at age 2 may be predictive of final adult height. But many factors can affect height. As they grow, children should be monitored regularly by a doctor to ensure they are growing properly and to detect any growth problems as soon as possible.
Most children will reach an adult height within 4 inches (10 centimeters) of this estimation. Another way to estimate a child's adult height is to double a boy's height at age 2 or a girl's height at age 18 months. Remember, a child's height is controlled by genetics. It's also important to note that children grow at different rates.
This height calculator uses a popular formula that takes genetics into account to predict how tall your child will be as an adult. Keep in mind that this formula can only provide an estimate of how tall your child will be. 
If your child is four years or older, our height prediction quiz will give you a sneak peek at how tall your kid may be. 1  Facebook. 