1 But seek emergency help first, such as calling 911. 2  Take nitroglycerin, if prescribed. 3  If you think you're having a heart attack and your doctor has previously prescribed nitroglycerin for you, take it as directed. 4  Do not take anyone else's nitroglycerin, because that could put you in more danger. 1 If you think you're having a heart attack and your doctor has previously prescribed nitroglycerin for you, take it as directed. 2  Do not take anyone else's nitroglycerin, because that could put you in more danger. 3  Begin CPR if the person is unconscious.
1 Take nitroglycerin, if prescribed. 2  If you think you're having a heart attack and your doctor has previously prescribed nitroglycerin for you, take it as directed. 3  Do not take anyone else's nitroglycerin, because that could put you in more danger. 4  Begin CPR if the person is unconscious. 1 If you think you're having a heart attack and your doctor has previously prescribed nitroglycerin for you, take it as directed. 2  Do not take anyone else's nitroglycerin, because that could put you in more danger. 3
1 tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to nitroglycerin patches, capsules, tablets, ointment, or spray; any other medications; or any of the ingredients in nitroglycerin tablets, capsules, or spray. Nitroglycerin may not work as well after you have used it for some time or if you have taken many doses. If you are taking the capsules, your doctor will schedule your doses so that there is a period of time when you are not exposed to nitroglycerin every day.
Aspirin is Aspirin. When people say Take an Aspirin, they are actually referencing the drug itself. If your question is What other Over the Counter pain reliever/blood thin … ners can I take that do not contain Aspirin, then I would have to ask what purpose you need it for. They are all NSAIDS and can help you feel better from aches and pains, reduce inflammation such as swollen sinuses, etc. and treat fever. But those under age 18 should not take aspirin when they may have a virus or flu since there is a risk of Reye's Syndrome with that medication use with some viruses.
1 Chew and swallow an aspirin, unless you are allergic to aspirin or have been told by your doctor never to take aspirin. 2  But seek emergency help first, such as calling 911. 3  Take nitroglycerin, if prescribed. 1 If you think you're having a heart attack and your doctor has previously prescribed nitroglycerin for you, take it as directed. 2  Do not take anyone else's nitroglycerin, because that could put you in more danger. 3  Begin CPR if the person is unconscious.
Usually, yes you can, they are not the same medicines. Both are NSAIDs however Ibuprofen does not thin your blood, nor should it cause an allergic reaction if you are allergic … to aspirin. Always check with your doctor if you are unsure about taking a medication. They are all NSAIDS and can help you feel better from aches and pains, reduce inflammation such as swollen sinuses, etc. and treat fever. But those under age 18 should not take aspirin when they may have a virus or flu since there is a risk of Reye's Syndrome with that medication use with some viruses.
Why It Is Used. For people who are having a heart attack. You can take aspirin to help you during a heart attack. After you call 911 or other emergency services, the operator may tell you to chew 1 adult-strength or 2 to 4 low-dose aspirin. Or you might be given aspirin in the ambulance or emergency room. Aspirin slows blood clotting. 
It is recommended you don't because it can increase the side effects from the nitroglycerin. However I am not a doctor always consult your doctor/physician first! They are all NSAIDS and can help you feel better from aches and pains, reduce inflammation such as swollen sinuses, etc. and treat fever. But those under age 18 should not take aspirin when they may have a virus or flu since there is a risk of Reye's Syndrome with that medication use with some viruses.
If you are allergic to nitroglycerin or any of its inactive ingredients, you should not take nitroglycerin. People who have very serious kidney problems should not take nitroglycerin. You should not take nitroglycerin if you have: 1  Just had a heart attack. 2  Severe anemia, a condition in which your levels of red blood cells are low. 3  Narrow angle glaucoma or increased pressure within the eye. 
It can avert a heart attack. Blood tries to clot when it's not flowing. Aspirin prevents blood from clotting in a blocked or partially blocked artery. We often recommend that patients take an aspirin while having a heart problem. Many people take a baby aspirin or an adult aspirin daily to prevent such. I always suggest you consult your physician, but I believe that nitroglycerin should be administered first. A less than total blockage can cause heart pain, or angina ,along with sweating and shortness of breath. This can be treated with nitroglycerin under the tongue or on the skin. The drug causes a relaxation of muscle in the wall of the coronary artery. This causes the artery to dilate, so more blood can flow.