Pregnancy. Pregnancy is associated with nausea after eating coupled with an increased appetite. In the first trimester of pregnancy, sick feelings, vomiting or nausea are common. The extent of nausea and vomiting differ from a woman to woman. Well, there are a large number of causes linked with nausea after eating. The most common include: 1  Food poisoning. 2  Peptic ulcer. 3  Dyspepsia. 4  Celiac disease. 5  Anxiety.
Vomiting After Eating. Vomiting after consumption of food cannot be called a disease, but it can be an important symptom of digestive system disorder. Read on, to know what makes a person vomit after eating and what precautions should be taken to avoid it. 
The timing of the nausea or vomiting can indicate the cause. When appearing shortly after a meal, nausea or vomiting may be caused by food poisoning, gastritis (inflammation of the stomach lining), an ulcer, or bulimia. Nausea or vomiting one to eight hours after a meal may also indicate food poisoning. Nausea is an uneasiness of the stomach that often comes before vomiting. Vomiting is the forcible voluntary or involuntary emptying (throwing up) of stomach contents through the mouth.
Eating spicy or high-fat food can cause nausea, a common symptom of indigestion. Photo Credit taco salad image by Jeffrey Zalesny from Fotolia.com. Nausea refers to the uncomfortable feeling preceding vomiting, though vomiting does not always occur afterward. Certain foods, contaminated foods and eating too quickly may contribute to nausea. In some cases, nausea indicates a serious underlying condition, such as food poisoning or an ulcer. Food Poisoning. Food poisoning, or food-borne illness, happens after ingesting food contaminated with toxins such as bacteria. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center (UMMC), 75 million people are affected by food poisoning annually and nausea is a common primary symptom.
Nausea & vomiting. One of the most feared side effects of cancer treatments is nausea and/or vomiting. Nausea is characterized by an unpleasant feeling in the back of the throat or a queasy feeling in the stomach which may or may not be associated with vomiting. 
Nausea and vomiting are not diseases, but rather are symptoms of many different conditions, such as infection (stomach flu), food poisoning, motion sickness, overeating, blocked intestine, illness, concussion or brain injury, appendicitis, and migraines. Usually vomiting is harmless, but it can be a sign of a more serious illness. Some examples of serious conditions that may bring on nausea or vomiting include concussions, encephalitis, meningitis, intestinal blockage, appendicitis, migraine headaches, and brain tumors. Another concern with vomiting is dehydration.