Bad Ozone-In the Earth s lower atmosphere, near ground level, ozone is formed when pollutants emitted by cars, power plants, industrial boilers, refineries, chemical plants, and other sources react chemically in the presence of sunlight. Ozone at ground level is a harmful pollutant. 1 Ozone occurs naturally in the Earth s upper atmosphere (the stratosphere), where it shields the Earth from the sun s ultraviolet rays. 2  At ground-level, ozone is an air pollutant that can harm human health.
Ozone is a colorless gas that can be good or bad, depending on where it is. Ozone in the stratosphere is good because it shields the earth from the sun’s ultraviolet rays. Ozone at ground level, where we breathe, is bad because it can harm human health. Ozone forms when two types of pollutants (VOCs and NOx) react in sunlight. These pollutants come from sources such as vehicles, industries, power plants, and products such as solvents and paints.
Ozone can also be found in the troposphere, the lowest layer of the atmosphere. Tropospheric ozone (often termed bad ozone) is man-made, a result of air pollution from internal combustion engines and power plants. Ozone is found naturally in small concentrations in the stratosphere, a layer of Earth's upper atmosphere. In this upper atmosphere, ozone is made when ultraviolet light from the sun splits an oxygen molecule (O2), forming two single oxygen atoms.
Ozone is found in two different layers of the atmosphere-the troposphere and the stratosphere. The stratospheric ozone, or good ozone, protects life on earth from harmful effects of the sun's UV rays. Ozone in the Troposphere. The other 10% of the ozone in the earth's atmosphere is found in the troposphere, which is the portion of the atmosphere from the earth's surface to about 12 km or 7 miles up.
Bad Ozone is also known as Tropospheric Ozone, or ground level ozone. This gas is found in the troposphere, the layer that forms the immediate atmosphere. Bad Ozone does not exist naturally. Human actions cause chemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOC). Even though Ozone is only a small part of the gases in this layer, it plays a vital role because it shields us from the sun's harmful UV rays. It is called Good Ozone, for obvious reasons—because it protects humans, life and animals on earth.
So where is ozone good, and where is it bad for life? High in the stratosphere, ozone acts as a protection from UV light. Without this protective shield, all animal life (not just humans) would be more susceptible to cancer, impaired immune systems, and eye problems like cataracts. 
In the troposphere, the ground-level or bad ozone is an air pollutant that damages human health, vegetation, and many common materials. It is a key ingredient of urban smog. In the stratosphere, we find the good ozone that protects life on earth from the harmful effects of the sun's ultraviolet rays. Ozone in the Troposphere. The other 10% of the ozone in the earth's atmosphere is found in the troposphere, which is the portion of the atmosphere from the earth's surface to about 12 km or 7 miles up.
Ozone is formed from dioxygen by the action of ultraviolet light and also atmospheric electrical discharges, and is present in low concentrations throughout the Earth's atmosphere (stratosphere). In total, ozone makes up only 6993600000000000000♠0.6 ppm of the atmosphere. 
Ozone is a colorless gas found in the air we breathe. Ozone can be good or bad depending on where it occurs: Ozone occurs naturally in the Earth s upper atmosphere (the stratosphere), where it shields the Earth from the sun s ultraviolet rays. 1 Ozone occurs naturally in the Earth s upper atmosphere (the stratosphere), where it shields the Earth from the sun s ultraviolet rays. 2  At ground-level, ozone is an air pollutant that can harm human health.
Ozone is a natural gas composed of three atoms of oxygen. It chemical symbol is O3. It is blue in color and has a strong odor. Normal oxygen (O2), which we breathe, has two oxygen atoms and is colorless and odorless. Environmental scientists have classified O3 into two: Good Ozone and Bad Ozone. Good Ozone. Even though Ozone is only a small part of the gases in this layer, it plays a vital role because it shields us from the sun's harmful UV rays. It is called Good Ozone, for obvious reasons—because it protects humans, life and animals on earth.