Ferrous Metals. The following are ferrous metals and the kind of uses to which they are usually put: 1  Mild Steel – Carbon content of 0.1 to 0.3% and Iron content of 99.7 – 99.9%. 2  Used for engineering purposes and in general, none specialised metal products. 3  Carbon steel – Carbon content of 0.6 to 1.4% and Iron content of 98.6 to 99.4 %. 
It is also largely used in forming alloys with other metals, thus solder is made of 50 parts of lead and 50 parts of tin; type-metal is made of 80 parts of lead and 20 parts of antimony; and pewter is made of 25 parts of lead and 75 parts of tin. &nbsp. Continue to: 1  prev: Some Hints on Using the Tools. 
In printing, type metal (sometimes called hot metal) refers to the metal alloys used in traditional typefounding and hot metal typesetting. Lead is the main constituent of these alloys. 
There are really others, for quicksilver is a metal, although the Alchemists disagree with us on this subject, and bismuth is also. The ancient Greek writers seem to have been ignorant of bismuth, wherefore Ammonius rightly states that there are many species of metals, animals, and plants which are unknown to us. When a metal ore is an ionic compound of that metal and a non-metal, the ore must usually be smelted — heated with a reducing agent — to extract the pure metal. Many common metals, such as iron, are smelted using carbon as a reducing agent.
About 91 of the 118 elements in the periodic table are metals (some elements appear in both metallic and non-metallic forms). Astrophysicists use the term metal to collectively describe all elements other than hydrogen and helium. Thus, the metallicity of an object is the proportion of its matter made up of chemical elements other than hydrogen and helium. When a metal ore is an ionic compound of that metal and a non-metal, the ore must usually be smelted — heated with a reducing agent — to extract the pure metal. Many common metals, such as iron, are smelted using carbon as a reducing agent.
Due to their shiny appearance they can be used in jewellery and decorations. Particularly gold and silver are widely used for jewellery. In the old days, mirrors were made of shiny metals like silver. Silver is a very good reflector.  Metals such as iron are very strong. Therefore, it is therefore, widely used in the construction of buildings, bridges, railway lines, carriages, vehicles and machinery. 3  All metals except Mercury, exist in the solid form at room temperature. Therefore, they retain their shapes under normal conditions.
Bronze is a dark metal made from an alloy of copper and tin. Bronze was one of the earliest and most useful metals discovered by mankind. It was harder than copper, stone or wood and could be made into weapons, containers and tools. Bronze is still widely used today to make statues, door handles and jewelry. Copper is a common, reddish-coloured metal that is used for electrical wiring, and mixed with other metals into alloys like brass and bronze. Copper is an extremely good conductor of electricity. Oxides of copper are blue and green, and have been used to colour paints and glaze pots for thousands of years.
Alloys. An Alloy is a mixture of different metals, melted together to combine the different properties. Bronze is made from copper and tin. Its is used today for sculptures and church bells, but was once the most common metal, as it is relatively easy to produce with primitive technology. 
A is for Alloy. An alloy is a mixture of two or more metals, or one metal and something that isn't a metal. They are mixed together so well you cannot tell that the alloy is not a pure metal. Alloys typically have very different properties to the components that went into making the alloys. Copper is a common, reddish-coloured metal that is used for electrical wiring, and mixed with other metals into alloys like brass and bronze. Copper is an extremely good conductor of electricity. Oxides of copper are blue and green, and have been used to colour paints and glaze pots for thousands of years.
Base Metal-Base metal is a term used to refer to a metal that oxidizes or corrodes relatively easily as with copper, iron, nickel, lead and zinc. Carat-The term Carat, Karat or k is used to indicate the amount of pure (24k) gold in the alloy. Lower Carat ratings indicate proportionally less pure gold. 