WAN. Stands for Wide Area Network.. It is similar to a Local Area Network (LAN), but it's a lot bigger. Unlike LANs, WANs are not limited to a single location. Many wide area networks span long distances via telephone lines, fiber optic cables, or satellite links. 
Dougal Waters/Digital Vision/Getty Images. Definition: A WAN spans a large geographic area, such as a state, province or country. WANs often connect multiple smaller networks, such as local area networks (LANs) or metro area networks (MANs). The world's most popular WAN is the Internet. Some segments of the Internet, like VPN-based extranets, are also WANs in themselves. 
A wide area network (WAN) is a telecommunications network or computer network that extends over a large geographical distance. Wide area networks often are established with leased telecommunication circuits. Related terms for other types of networks are personal area networks (PANs), local area networks (LANs), campus area networks (CANs), or metropolitan area networks (MANs) which are usually limited to a room, building, campus or specific metropolitan area respectively. Contents.
Introduction. The LAN-to-WAN Domain provides Internet access for the entire organization and acts as the entry/exit point for the wide area network (WAN). This domain is where all data travels into and out of the IT infrastructure
WAN devices may include hubs, routers, switches, wireless devices, or other devices. The Security Authority determines whether devices are classified as WAN or not. In this definition, personal computers, file servers, printers, or other Local Area Network (LAN) devices are not generally classified as part of the WAN. (See illustration on following page).
A wide area network (WAN) is a geographically dispersed telecommunications network. The term distinguishes a broader telecommunication structure from a local area network (LAN). A wide area network may be privately owned or rented, but the term usually connotes the inclusion of public (shared user) networks. An intermediate form of network in terms of geography is a metropolitan area network (MAN)
Short for Wide Area Network, WAN is a collection of computers and network resources connected via a network over a geographic area. Wide-Area Networks are commonly connected either through the Internet or special arrangements made with phone companies or other service providers. For home routers the port that your network to the Internet is labeled as WAN, Network, or Internet and is what allows your home network to communicate with the Internet network. In the picture below, is an example of the Internet port on the back of a home router, next to four standard Ethernet ports.
Domain. While the term domain is often used synonymously with  domain name , it also has a definition specific to local networks. A domain contains a group of computers that can be accessed and administered with a common set of rules