Psychosis is the general term used to describe psychotic symptoms such as hallucinations and delusions. Schizophrenia is a kind of psychosis; it is a mental illness that has psychotic symptoms as one of its defining features. Schizophrenia is used to describe one particular, chronic and disabling mental illness that has psychosis (psychotic symptoms such as hallucinations, delusions or thought disorder) as a major feature. However, to be diagnosed as schizophrenic an individual needs to meet all three of the criteria below**:
Overview. Delusional disorder is an illness characterized by at least 1 month of delusions but no other psychotic symptoms according to the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5). Mood symptoms of delusional disorder are generally mild and delusions usually exist in the absence of mood abnormalities. Schizophrenia. Delusions of schizophrenia are bizarre in nature, and thematically-associated hallucinations are common. Additionally, disorganized thought process, speech, or behaviors is present.
Schizophrenia, on the other hand, is a disorder where a person loses touch with reality in multiple ways. Schizophrenics have bizarre delusions (primarily of grandeur or persecution) and hallucinations, mostly visual and auditory. Someone with delusional disorder generally does not have any behavioral impairment due to their disorder, unless their delusion is acted out in some way. That is, everything else about them seems pretty much normal, except for the delusion(s) that they hold.
Unlike schizophrenia, delusional disorder usually does not cause hallucinations. Individuals with this condition tend to retain organized thinking. They are also usually emotionally expressive, and report feelings that are consistent with their perception of what is going on in the world. 
Persecutory. In schizophrenia, as well as other psychotic disorders such as delusional disorder, delusions may have a variety of themes. The most common type of delusion associated with schizophrenia involves persecutory delusions. Share this with a friend. Follow Schizophrenia Support. Schizophrenia is classified as a psychotic disorder, which means the inability to tell the difference between what is real or imagined. Two types of psychotic symptoms characteristic of this serious psychiatric disorder are hallucinations and
The third difference between the two disorders is that schizophrenia will significantly affect a person’s behavior, and sometimes their speech, whereas delusional disorder does not. The fourth difference between the two disorders is the delusions. With schizophrenia, the delusions are bizarre and unbelievable, whereas the delusions with delusional disorder are non-bizarre and can be believable. When schizophrenia is not treated it impairs a person’s ability to function to their full potential, and there is no simple treatment that exists to manage schizophrenia. Another major difference between delusional disorder and schizophrenia is hallucinations. A person with schizophrenia commonly sees and hears hallucinations, whereas a person with delusional disorder does not have any hallucinations
The first main difference between delusional disorder and schizophrenia is that delusional disorder does not typically disrupt a person’s daily life, whereas schizophrenia commonly interferes with a person’s life. When schizophrenia is not treated it impairs a person’s ability to function to their full potential, and there is no simple treatment that exists to manage schizophrenia. Another major difference between delusional disorder and schizophrenia is hallucinations. A person with schizophrenia commonly sees and hears hallucinations, whereas a person with delusional disorder does not have any hallucinations
By American Psychiatric Association ~ Less than a minute read. Delusions are a symptom of some mental disorder, such as schizophrenia, delusional disorder, schizoaffective disorder, and schizophreniform disorder. Hallucinations, on the other hand, tend to only appear in people with schizophrenia or a psychotic disorder. Referential delusions are also common; the person believes that certain gestures, comments, passages from books, newspapers, song lyrics, or other environmental cues are specifically directed at him or her.