Its origin is  Gaelic/Celtic, Irish . Another meaning of Oscar is  God's spear . Its origin is  Old English . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 178th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. 
Oscar or Oskar is a masculine given name derived from the Irish language. The name may be derived from two elements in Irish: the first, os, means deer; the second element, cara, means friend. The name is borne by a character in Irish mythology — Oscar, grandson of Fionn Mac Cumhail.
Celtic Meaning: The name Oscar is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Oscar is: Jumping fighter. English Meaning: The name Oscar is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Oscar is: Divine spear; God's spear. Famous Bearer: poet Oscar Wilde (1854-1900), who was put on trial and imprisoned for homosexuality
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Oscar and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Oscar and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The different meanings of the name Oscar are: The meaning of the name “Oscar” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Origin of the name Oscar: derived from a Norman baronial name taken from a French place-name meaning golden city.. Others think it is merely an invention of the novelist Fanny Burney, who used it for the hero in her novel Evelina (1778). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Oscar (Irish) possibly from the Gaelic phrase os cara, meaning friend of the deer. James Macpherson used the name in his Ossianic poems. Napoleon, an admirer of those works, imposed it on his little French godson, who ascended the throne of Sweden as Oscar I (or Oskar I).
Meaning of Oscar. English name. In English, the name Oscar means-Divine spear; Gods spear. Famous Bearer: poet Oscar Wilde (1854-1900), who was put on trial and imprisoned for homosexuality.. Other origins for the name Oscar include-English, Scandinavian, Celtic.The name Oscar is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Divine spear; Gods spear. Famous Bearer: poet Oscar Wilde (1854-1900), who was put on trial and imprisoned for homosexuality. Origin-English
Oskar /os-kar/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Oskar's root is Old English, and the meaning of the name Oskar is spear of the gods. Oskar is an alternate spelling of Oscar (Old English) with the suffix-kar. Kreatif forms: Oioskar, Oskaroi, Oskarri. 
Oscar /os-car/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced OS-ker. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Oscar is spear of the gods. Also possibly from the Gaelic phrase os cara, meaning friend of the deer. James Macpherson used the name in his Ossianic poems. Napoleon, an admirer of those works, imposed it on his little French godson, who ascended the throne of Sweden as Oscar I (or Oskar I).
Oscar is a very popular first name for males (#151 out of 1220, Top 12%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#18129 out of 150436, Top 12%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Oscar for boys. Also possibly from the Gaelic phrase os cara, meaning friend of the deer. James Macpherson used the name in his Ossianic poems. Napoleon, an admirer of those works, imposed it on his little French godson, who ascended the throne of Sweden as Oscar I (or Oskar I).