The water cycle is dominated by the oceans, where 96 percent of the water on Earth is found and where 86 percent of global evaporation occurs. When rain and other precipitation falls on land, some of it runs off into surface waters such as lakes and streams. Much of it, however, seeps into the ground. However, of all water that returns to the atmosphere through evaporation, ocean evaporation is the most prevalent, consisting of about 80 percent of total global evaporation. For land-based evaporation, roughly half occurs on the surface area of plants and is called transpiration.
The water cycle involves the exchange of energy, which leads to temperature changes. For instance, when water evaporates, it takes up energy from its surroundings and cools the environment. When it condenses, it releases energy and warms the environment. These heat exchanges influence climate. Condensed water vapor that falls to the Earth's surface. Most precipitation occurs as rain, but also includes snow, hail, fog drip, graupel, and sleet. Approximately 505,000 km 3 (121,000 cu mi) of water falls as precipitation each year, 398,000 km 3 (95,000 cu mi) of it over the oceans.
The water cycle is the continuous movement of water in and around the Earth. As previously mentioned, water never really goes away -- it just changes form. The Water Cycle. The water cycle is the continuous movement of water in and around the Earth. As previously mentioned, water never really goes away -- it just changes form. The sun drives the entire water cycle and is responsible for its two major components: condensation and evaporation.
​Water is always cycling around, through and above the Earth. This is called the natural water cycle – the continuous movement of water between the land, ocean, rivers and creeks and atmosphere. As water moves through the cycle, it changes state from liquid (rainwater, seawater) to gas (water vapour) and back to liquid. Liquid can also freeze and become solid (ice or snow). 
Credit: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Evaporation is the process by which water changes from a liquid to a gas or vapor. Evaporation is the primary pathway that water moves from the liquid state back into the water cycle as atmospheric water vapor. 
The water cycle is a natural process that happens when water rotates through different forms (solid, liquid, or vapor). The process improves the quality of water. However, people do things that create water pollution. The Water Cycle (University of Washington) - Information and several activities to learn about the water cycle. Water, the Never Ending Story (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences) - Online storybook about the Earth's water.
Explore the links below to learn about the water cycle, human activities that introduce pollutants into the water cycle, and what we can do to protect our water. The Water Cycle (University of Washington) - Information and several activities to learn about the water cycle. Water, the Never Ending Story (National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences) - Online storybook about the Earth's water.
The water cycle is called the hydrologic cycle. In the hydrologic cycle, water from oceans, lakes, swamps, rivers, plants, and even you, can turn into water vapor. Water vapor condenses into millions of tiny droplets that form clouds. Clouds lose their water as rain or snow, which is called precipitation. 
The illustration shows the hydrologic cycle in which water leaves the atmosphere and falls to earth as precipitation where it enters surface waters or percolates into the water table and groundwater and eventually is taken back into the atmosphere by transpiration and evaporation to begin the cycle again. 
Water Cycle. Earth is a truly unique in its abundance of water. Water is necessary to sustaining life on Earth, and helps tie together the Earth's lands, oceans, and atmosphere into an integrated system. As water travels through the water cycle, some water will become part of The Global Conveyer Belt and can take up to 1,000 years to complete this global circuit. It represents in a simple way how ocean currents carry warm surface waters from the equator toward the poles and moderate global climate.