Isoenzymes levels are studied to pinpoint tissue damage and site of damage for further prognosis. The LDH blood test normal range should be between 48 to 115 IU per liter. Less than 90IU/liter is considered to be normal. Results. The LDH blood test results depend on one’s age, gender, and the type of test procedure conducted by a particular laboratory. The ideal or normal range is 105 to 133 IU/L (international units per liter). The result also depends on the body organ or tissue under study
Back to Top Normal Results. A typical range is 105 - 333 IU/L (international units per liter). The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use different measurements or test different samples. 
This is a blood test that measures the level of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) in your body. LDH is an enzyme, or catalyst, found in many different tissues in your body. These include your red blood cells, skeletal muscles, kidneys, brain, and lungs. You may also have a lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme test. Your total LDH is made up of 5 isoenzymes numbered LDH-1 through LDH-5. The concentration of each isoenzyme depends on the tissue. For example, LDH-1 and LDH-2 are found mainly in heart tissue. LDH-5 is found mostly in the liver. A higher than normal total LDH means possible tissue damage. Your healthcare provider might order a lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme test to find out which tissue is damaged or diseased
A lactate dehydrogenase (LDH or LD) is an enzyme found in nearly all living cells (animals, plants, and prokaryotes). LDH catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to lactate and back, as it converts NADH to NAD + and back. 
Results. Lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH) is an enzyme that helps produce energy. Results may vary widely from lab to lab. Normal LDH levels range from 140 units per liter (U/L) to 280 U/L or 2.34 mkat/L to 4.68 mkat/L. Lactic Acid Dehydrogenase (LDH). Guide. Lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH) is an enzyme that helps produce energy. It is present in almost all of the tissues in the body and its levels rise in response to cell damage. LDH levels are measured from a sample of blood taken from a vein.
LDH is known by various names, LD, lactatic dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, LDH isoenzymes, or total LDH. LDH (consisting of five molecular forms of LDH) is an enzyme found in all cells and tissues of the body. This enzyme is released into the blood once there is trauma or damage to a tissue or organ. Results. The LDH blood test results depend on one’s age, gender, and the type of test procedure conducted by a particular laboratory. The ideal or normal range is 105 to 133 IU/L (international units per liter). The result also depends on the body organ or tissue under study
LDH is responsible for creating energy from glucose for cells. Normal levels of LDH range from 105 and 333 IU/liter. In fact low levels of LDH indicate that all is normal in the body. In cases where the numbers are radically low there is still no need to worry. It is found in almost all body tissues and can be measured by a simple blood test. Normal LDH levels are generally low and range between 140 IU/liter to 333 IU/ liter. Low LDH levels are usually no cause for concern. However, elevated LDH levels may indicate cell damage.
LDH or Lactic Acid Dehydrogenase is an enzyme that is found in almost all tissue in the body. It is responsible for converting glucose derived from food into energy. Cells then use this energy in order to function properly. Normal LDH levels in the blood range from 140 IU/liter to 333 IU/ liter. It is found in almost all body tissues and can be measured by a simple blood test. Normal LDH levels are generally low and range between 140 IU/liter to 333 IU/ liter. Low LDH levels are usually no cause for concern. However, elevated LDH levels may indicate cell damage.