Natural Home Remedies for Hives. Your kitchen is full of cures that can help you through an outbreak of hives. Give these home remedies a try the next time those red bumps flare up. Baking soda. Add 1/2 to 1 cup baking soda to a warm bath to soothe your itching. 
An antihistamine can put break on the natural action of histamines. It is antihistamine that helps to cure allergic symptoms of many diseases and hives as well. Some herbs can be suggested for its treatment. Jewelweed (Impatiens capensis) : It is a wonderful herb which can cure hives. It has got a compound named lawsone which can work wonderfully to treat hiv
Just about anything can make you break out in hives: Foods such as peanuts or strawberries, drugs such as penicillin or aspirin, vitamin supplements, heat, cold, sunlight, exercise, fever, stress, and even scratching or rubbing the skin are among some of the possibilities. 1 To see all of our home remedies and the conditions they treat, go to our main Home Remedies page. 2  To learn more about the science of allergies, read How Allergies Work. 3  Learn about kitchen cures to battle allergic reactions in Home Remedies for Allergies.
Oatmeal is one of the best natural ways to treat the itchy, irritated skin associated with hives. Get a cup of plain, all natural rolled oats and place them in a food processor or coffee grinder. Pulse until there the oatmeal becomes a thick powder. Mix a baking soda paste. Baking soda can be used to help relieve the itching of your hives. Mix 1 tbsp of baking soda with enough water to make a paste. Try a few drops at first and stir, adding more as needed.
Your Cures and Remedies Archive. ﻿. Hives, also known as urticaria, is an allergic reaction that involves rash and welts appearing in different parts of the skin. Hives are extremely itchy and can either last for a couple of minutes or days before disappearing.
Herbal Remedies for Hives. Some herbs help reduce the itching associated with hives. Photo Credit Remus Moise/iStock/Getty Images. Hives, sometimes known as urticaria, is a skin condition in which you experience random outbreaks of red, itchy welts over your body. MayoClinic.com notes that hives range in size from small welts to larger ones that are several inches in diameter. Any part of your body may be affected. Hives are often treated with herbal remedies -- a natural treatment method used by herbalists, naturopaths and other health care providers trained in herbal medicine.
Natural home remedies for hives. • Unless you have hives that are triggered by cold (which is rare), take a cool bath or apply a cold compress. Cold shrinks the blood vessels and blocks further release of histamine. It might be just what you need to relieve the hives. Make a paste as above and apply. • Mix 1 teaspoon of any kind of vinegar with 1 tablespoon of lukewarm water and apply the mixture to your hives with a cotton ball or tissue to soothe the itching.
While the cause of hives is often difficult to identify, many natural hives treatments work no matter the cause. One particularly effective hives treatment is activated charcoal. Taken on an empty stomach, activated charcoal absorbs any toxins or allergens in the system and clears the outbreak in as little as one day. 
Home Remedies for Hives. If you are severely allergic to bee stings or other insect bites, certain foods, or medications, ask your doctor about prescribing an emergency kit containing epinephrine (also called adrenaline), which is an injection used to treat anaphylaxis and associated hives. 