Established in 1999, Minnesota Screens, Inc is proud to provide and install Phantom Screens, North America’s leading brand of retractable screens. Our owner Tim Chamberlain first started as a Phantom distributor in 1995 in British Columbia. PERFECT FOR FRENCH DOORS. 1  Retractable screens are really the only solution to screen a set of French doors. 2  Screens are mounted on each side of the door frame and are held together with a hidden latch system in the middle.
Since 1992, Phantom Screens has rapidly grown to become North America’s leading provider of retractable screen solutions, meeting customer demand with its innovative products. During the years, Phantom Screens has grown from a small local operation in Abbotsford, to a multi-national company. 
French door units, Atrium style, single, or sliding patio door screen systems. Phantom is the largest manufacturer of retractable screen doors in North America and Broadview Screen Company is St. Louis’ most experienced retractable door authority. If you are thinking retractable, think Broadview Screen and Phantom. Powered retractable screens covering openings up to 25 feet wide by 16 feet tall with a variety of mesh options for insect, solar or privacy protection. The Executive by Phantom offers you the freedom of an open porch or the protection/privacy of a screened enclosure at the push of a button.
21st. Century Screens became Phantom's fastest growing distributor and the most successful retractable screen company in the southeastern United States. In 1999, we added a line of motorized screens created by a crafsman in Orlando, Florida. This product was so unique and successful that Phantom, MFG purchased his company and took Phantom Executive Motorized Screens to the international market becoming very soon the largest motorized screens supplier in the world.
Next Century Screens. Next Century Screens was founded by Peter Fay in the spring of 1997 as the authorized distributor and provider of Phantom Screens for the North Texas region. Since that time, Next Century Screens has focused on providing excellence in both product and service to our customers. Phantom Screens was founded in 1992 to provide a retractable to conventional insect screens-one that had customers' aesthetic, lifestyle and functional needs in mind. At Phantom we are committed to one core promise: delivering superior customer satisfaction..
It's free! Phantom Mfg. (Int'l) Ltd. is North America's leading provider of retractable screens for doors, windows and large openings such as patios, porches and verandas. Founded in 1992, Phantom Screens is an innovative organization that has pioneered and revolutionized the market it serves. During the years, Phantom Screens has grown from a small local operation in Abbotsford, BC to a multi-national company. Phantom Screens has built an extensive network of authorized distributors throughout North America, and is rapidly expanding in the UK, Australia, Mexico, and other international location
Phantom Screens, North America’s leading provider of retractable screen solutions for doors, windows and large openings like porches, lanais and garage doors. Powered retractable screens covering openings up to 25 feet wide by 16 feet tall with a variety of mesh options for insect, solar or privacy protection. The Executive by Phantom offers you the freedom of an open porch or the protection/privacy of a screened enclosure at the push of a button.