As the most famous party island in Spain, Ibiza attracts partying a ridiculous amount of tourists every summer. From June to September, this small Spanish island is home to the world’s famous DJs and the best parties ever. 
Spain is the finest holiday destination all over the world for all group of age,there are many places like Costa Brava, Costa Blanca, Costa Maresme, Ibiza and Mallorca (Majorca),where you can enjoy luxurious villa’s life with long white sand beaches and also late parties night. That is the main reason for the popularity of Ibiza. Five star hotels, nightclubs, club sunrises, famous DJs, various type of music and artists…all these facts brought
Find refuge in a churche. Ibiza's parish churches are quite different from ecclesiastical buildings elsewhere. They owe their unique architecture to the fact that they were once local strongholds in which local inhabitants took refuge when marauding pirates appeared on the scene. MORE...
Beside the great climate and interesting historical data, Ibiza offers a very rich nightlife. That is the main reason for the popularity of Ibiza. Five star hotels, nightclubs, club sunrises, famous DJs, various type of music and artists…all these facts brought the popularity of Ibiza.
Home About Where is Ibiza. It is one of the Balearic Islands, and sometimes called the 'White Island' or 'The Magic Isle'. To be precise, Ibiza Town which is the capital of this wonderful island is located at 380'54' 0010E26'. So, if you're wandering with only your compass and sextant to guide you, the White Island beckons. The Balearics consist of four inhabited islands, off the east coast of Spain from Valencia. Majorca is the largest, then Minorca, Ibiza, with Formentera the smallest, very close and south of Ibiza.Traditionally, access to Ibiza was by boat, and the natural harbour, overlooked by the 'Dalt Vila' on the hilltop, it provided shelter from both weather and enemies.
Share |. Description: The map showing location map of Ibiza in Spain. The Ibiza town is also known as Eivissa and it is the capital of Ibiza Island. And, the inhabitants of Ibiza love to call it Vila d'Eivissa or Vila simply. Moreover, Ibiza is more famous for its tourism; the important attractions are Cathedral of Santa d'Eivissa-it is located at the top of Dalt Vila and there is also a Punic necropolis of Puig des Molins. Besides, Ibiza is more fascinating for the tourists because of its nightlife.
http://bestflights.co.za/europe/spain... - Visit for more information on Ibiza, Spain. Ibiza, also known as the White Island, is an island in the Mediterranean Sea, 79 km off the coast of Spain. The island, one of the 4 Balearic Islands, consists of cove beaches, high towering cliffs and is densely covered with pine trees. The island's capital is Ibiza-Town, one of Europe's oldest towns. What to see / do. 
Ibiza (native name: Eivissa) is one of the most visited islands in the whole world. It is located in the Mediterranean Sea and it is part of community Baleares islands in Spain. 80km far from the coast and the city of Valencia and surrounded with over fifty other islands, belongs to the Pine islands along with Formentera. The biggest cities are Ibiza town and Sant Antonio. That is the main reason for the popularity of Ibiza. Five star hotels, nightclubs, club sunrises, famous DJs, various type of music and artists…all these facts brought
Since, Ibiza town developed in two time periods so the older one known as Dalt Vila or simply Upper Town and modern one is known as Exiample. Geographically, Ibiza Island is located in the western part of Mediterranean Sea in the group of Balearic Islands. Moreover, Ibiza is more famous for its tourism; the important attractions are Cathedral of Santa d'Eivissa-it is located at the top of Dalt Vila and there is also a Punic necropolis of Puig des Molins. Besides, Ibiza is more fascinating for the tourists because of its nightlife.