When the motor is running it uses the same power-number of watts-all the time. To find the energy used (in watt-hours) you multiply the watts used by the total time in hou … rs. So if it uses 500 watts and is on for 3 minutes each hour, it uses 500x3/60 watt hours each hour, or 600 watt-hours in one day. 6 people found this useful.
My refrigerator has a 500 watt compressor that runs about one fifth of the time. I am paying $0.13 per kilowatt hour. For example, I plugged my Kill A Watt meter into my Maytag 18.5 refrigerator and left it in for about 3 days. After 74 hours and 53 minutes the Kill A Watt meter registered 3.96 kwh. Here’s how I determined the watts consumed by my refrigerator per year:
To select an inverter from DonRowe.com that has enough power for your application, add the watts for items you may want to run at the same time. Use the total wattage, plus 20%, as your minimum power requirement. Note: The wattage's given below are estimates. The actual wattage required for your appliances may differ from those listed. Check the nameplate on the appliance to determine the actual wattage required
Appliance Watts/Amps Calculator Electricity is measured in units of energy called watts, named after James Watt, the inventor of the steam engine. Watts is generally defined as the amount of power (or energy) an appliance uses (consumes) when operated at its maximum capacity for 1 hour. Amps on the other hand is defined as how much energy an appliance draws, or the rate of energy that flows through wire when an appliance is used for 1 hour. Finally, volts is what energizes the appliance or it is the force that pushes electricity through wire to the appliance. You can determine power characteristics of an appliance if watts rating is not provided, by the following equation: V (Volts) X A (Amps) = Watts (Ohm's Law) A=W/V V=W/A To determine Amps consumed by a 25watt 12V light bulb, for example, use the equation A=W/V or (25/12=2.1Amps).
(Wattage x eight) ÷ 1000 = kWh per day. Where eight represents our presumed eight hours active time per day. Thus a 600 Watt unit – typical of older, larger refrigerators – would use 4.8 kilowatt hours daily, or 1750 per year; where a more modern 140 watt unit uses about 1.1 kWh daily, or approximately 400 per year. This is how many watts does a refrigerator use. No information is provided by the author. 
At 15 kWh, trading in a pre-1986 fridge for a new efficient one would save about $158 a year in electricity costs. And some older fridges are even worse than the average. One reader estimates her savings to be $238 per year for trading in her 1979 fridge for a 2004 model. Refrigerators are a big chunk of home energy use. In most homes the refrigerator is the second-largest user of electricity (13.7%), right after the air conditioner (14.1%). (Dept. of Energy) With most appliances you save energy by using them less, but you can't very well do that with your fridge.
Open your refrigerator and look for a sticker that lists technical specifications. Find the voltage and amperage of the refrigerator; for instance, you may see 115 V and 6.5 amps.. Multiplying these two numbers tells you how many watts your refrigerator uses -- in this case, 747.5 watts. Smaller refrigerators typically use about 350 watts, while larger models use as much as 780 watts. Your refrigerator's wattage is toward the higher end of the spectrum among the appliances in your home. Clothes dryers use a minimum of 1,800 watts but may use as much as 5,000 watts. Dishwashers use about 1,800 watts.
About $21. If you’re trying to compare the watts consumed by a refrigerator you already own, to that of a refrigerator you plan to buy, the best approach is to buy a Kill A Watt meter or other electricity usage monitor and use it to measure your current refrigerator energy consumption. For example, I plugged my Kill A Watt meter into my Maytag 18.5 refrigerator and left it in for about 3 days. After 74 hours and 53 minutes the Kill A Watt meter registered 3.96 kwh. Here’s how I determined the watts consumed by my refrigerator per year:
1) They use between 300 and 800 watts so an inexpensive inverter can be used. 2) Refrigerators run quite often and use about the same amount of electricity every month. 3) They are something that is typically always in use, even when you are on vacation. 