Split and merge into it. Answer by MrJodie. Confidence votes 901. Potatoes do not contain sugar. They do, however, contain a very large amount of carbohydrate which hits your blood stream quickly and is then converted to sugar. That fact is why potatoes rank very high on the Glycemic Index, a tool used to rank foods for such things as diabetes, weight loss, or optimum health. 
Many of the World's Healthiest Foods contain starches, resistant starches, and non-starch polysaccharides as well. You'll find some key non-starch polysaccharides in the World's Healthiest fruits, as well as in flaxseeds, pumpkin seeds, potatoes, corn, and beets. Resistant starches are present in the many of the World's Healthiest grains, legumes, and vegetables. Both types of polysaccharides—starch and non-starch—have important roles to play in our health. The starches serve primarily as an intermediate form of energy. Since they are large molecules of linked simple sugars, they take time to break down and absorb.
potatoes are a starchy carbohydrate Photo Credit YelenaYemchuk/iStock/Getty Images. One example of a polysaccharide found in foods is starch. This is the main carbohydrate source for plant seeds and tubers, or vegetables that grow in the ground. Cellulose is another polysaccharide commonly found in foods. Cellulose provides a protective covering and/or structure to fruits and vegetables and their seeds. It gives foods a crunchy texture and is undigestible in the body.
Examples include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen, and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin. Polysaccharides are often quite heterogeneous, containing slight modifications of the repeating unit. Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'
Potatoes are a complex carbohydrate. The majority of carbohydrates in potatoes are complex carbohydrates, your body’s main energy source. Only about 20% of the potato’s nutrition is found in the skin. In fact, most of the vitamin C and potassium are found in the potato’s flesh, but that good for-you fiber is found in the skin.
Starch is found potatoes, not Glycogen. Glycogen is the plant equivalent of animal glycogen. A potato has starch but no glycogen; muscle cells have glycogen but no starch. The starch we eat is broken into glucose in the stomach/small intest and then reassembled in the muscle cells as glycogen. Starch is made up of roughly 20% amylose and 80% amylopectin which both have a very similar structure except amylope … ctin is made up of much larger molecules. It is the energy storage system like batteries. Another very common polysaccharide is cellulose.
1 Plants store excess glucose in the form of starch, a polysaccharide composed of long chains of glucose. 2  Starches can be found in potatoes, rice, wheat, corn, bananas, peas, beans, lentils, and other tubers, seeds and fruits of plants. 
The three main polysaccharides -- cellulose, starch, and glycogen -- are made of glucose. Glycogen is found in animal tissue, and cellulose and starch are found in plants. Glycogen can be broken down to glucose, which fuels our body with energy. Polysaccharides are carbohydrates, made of hundreds, sometimes thousands, of glucose molecules. You can find polysaccharides in plant foods, and they are known as cellulose, starch and glycogen.
They are polysaccharides in which the simple sugars have all been connected together in a similar type of way. There are also large groups of non-starch carbohydrates. These non-starch polysaccharides include cellulose and the hemicelluloses (pectins, gums, xylans, and mucilages). Both types of polysaccharides—starch and non-starch—have important roles to play in our health. The starches serve primarily as an intermediate form of energy. Since they are large molecules of linked simple sugars, they take time to break down and absorb.