Olives have been cultivated in parts of the Mediterranean—including Crete and Syria—for at least 5,000 years. In addition, there is carbon-dating evidence of olive tree presence in Spain as many as 6,000–8,000 years ago. This ancient and legendary tree was also native to parts of Asia and Africa. A first lye bath will cure the skin and outermost portion of the olives. This first solution is then drained from the olives and discarded and the olives are submerged in a second lye solution which begins to cure the next layer of fleshy pulp inside the olive.
Olive oil extraction is the process of extracting the oil present in olive drupes, known as olive oil. Olive oil is produced in the mesocarp cells, and stored in a particular type of vacuole called a lipo vacuole, i.e., every cell contains a tiny olive oil droplet. 
How to Grow an Olive Tree from a Pit. The olives, as known as Olea, is a genus with about 20 species belonging to the Oleaceae family. Olives are native to warm temperate and tropical regions in Europe, Australasia, Africa, and southern Asia.
The olive's fruit, also called the olive, is of major agricultural importance in the Mediterranean region as the source of olive oil. The tree and its fruit give their name to the plant family, which also includes species such as lilacs, jasmine, Forsythia and the true ash trees (Fraxinus). The immediate ancestry of the cultivated olive is unknown. It is assumed that Olea europaea may have arisen from O. chrysophylla in northern tropical Africa and that it was introduced into the countries of the Mediterranean Basin via Egypt and then Crete or the Levant, Syria, Tunisia and Asia Minor.
Olive plantation in Andalucia, Andalucía. Spain olives are now cultivated in many regions of the world With mediterranean, climates such As South, Africa, Chile, Peru, australia And california and in areas with temperate climates such As New, zealand under irrigation in The cuyo region In argentina which has a desert. climate The immediate ancestry of the cultivated olive is unknown. It is assumed that Olea europaea may have arisen from O. chrysophylla in northern tropical Africa and that it was introduced into the countries of the Mediterranean Basin via Egypt and then Crete or the Levant, Syria, Tunisia and Asia Minor.
1 To make it, put pitted olives in a food processor with olive oil, garlic, and your favorite seasonings. 2  Toss pasta with chopped olives, tomatoes, garlic, olive oil and fresh herbs of your choice. 3  Marinate olives in olive oil, lemon zest, coriander seeds and cumin seeds. A first lye bath will cure the skin and outermost portion of the olives. This first solution is then drained from the olives and discarded and the olives are submerged in a second lye solution which begins to cure the next layer of fleshy pulp inside the olive.
Olive tree farming typically starts from planting seeds and, from that initial step, it is important to check the quality of the seeds and the soil as well. 
Olives can be grown relatively easily from a seed, or pit, however it must be noted that most olive trees grown from a seed, are not good fruit-bearing trees. The olives, as known as Olea, is a genus with about 20 species belonging to the Oleaceae family. Olives are native to warm temperate and tropical regions in Europe, Australasia, Africa, and southern Asia.
Olive Types. The only difference between green olives and black olives is ripeness. Unripe olives are green, whereas fully ripe olives are black. Olives are cured or pickled before consumption, using various methods including oil-cured, water-cured, brine-cured, dry-cured, and lye-cured. Green olives must be soaked in a lye solution before brining, whereas ripe black olives can proceed straight to brining. The longer the olive is permitted to ferment in its own brine, the less bitter and more intricate its flavor will become.
There are hundreds of cultivars of the olive tree (Olea europaea). An olive's cultivar has a significant impact on its color, size, shape, and growth characteristics, as well as the qualities of olive oil. Olive cultivars may be used primarily for oil, eating, or both. The immediate ancestry of the cultivated olive is unknown. It is assumed that Olea europaea may have arisen from O. chrysophylla in northern tropical Africa and that it was introduced into the countries of the Mediterranean Basin via Egypt and then Crete or the Levant, Syria, Tunisia and Asia Minor.