Good Samaritan laws exist on a state-by-state basis. Mostly, they provide at least some protection for those who perform CPR or use an AED. Some states actually require you to step in if you know CPR or, in some cases, if you are a medical professional. In Vermont, for instance, requires bystanders to give “reasonable assistance” or face a $100 fine. Generally, however, Good Samaritan Laws are there to protect bystanders who perform CPR. You will not be protected by Good Samaritan laws if you try to go outside your area of training—if you try to perform an impromptu tracheotomy to save a choking victim, for example, and you are not a trained surgeon.
I wish I knew why. 1. If the victim is unconscious, you have 'implied consent'- this is not part of the Good Samaritan Law, it is just the way the laws are written. In many states, even if the victim shouts 'don't help me', and goes unconscious, you can still help them under this protection.
Here are some of the most common myths about CPR and First Aid certification, debunked. 1. You can get sued if you perform bystander CPR. If you provide emergency medical assistance with First Aid, CPR, or an AED, Good Samaritan laws will protect you, as long as you act reasonably and prudently. It’s better to perform CPR imperfectly than not at all. 3. You can get a First Aid and CPR Certification online. While it’s true that you can complete modules of First Aid and CPR certification courses online, you must complete an in-person skills session in order to receive a certification.
All states have Good Samaritan laws that grant some immunity protection for those performing CPR and an AED (again with restrictions) but they vary. Minnesota and Vermont require bystanders at an emergency to provide reasonable assistance, such as calling 911. Not assisting in Minnesota can land you a petty misdemeanor, and in Vermont a fine of up to $100. California, Nevada, and a few other states have contemplated amending their Good Samaritan laws to include a duty to assist. In some European countries and elsewhere, failing to help someone in need is a criminal offense. They can just walk by; it's up to that individual.. Advertisement. Seattle implemented a Medic One System recently in which citizens are trained to be active participants by recognizing when a fellow citizen needs medical care, calling 911, and assisting until emergency responders arrive.
2. Most states have a Good Samaritan Law that protects you from getting sued for helping others, assuming you have consent, act in good faith, and act reasonably and prudently in accordance with any training you have. This law would protect you as well. 3. 1. If the victim is unconscious, you have 'implied consent'- this is not part of the Good Samaritan Law, it is just the way the laws are written. In many states, even if the victim shouts 'don't help me', and goes unconscious, you can still help them under this protection.
It is the first element that must be established to proceed with an action in negligence. Reasonable care – or the actions of a reasonable person-is a legal basis of Common Law representing an objective standard against which any individual's conduct can be measured. 
First, whether or not you can be sued will vary depending on where you are and who you are. The 2000 Federal Cardiac Arrest Survival Act grants those who administer CPR or use an AED immunity from civil charges, except in instances of willful misconduct or gross negligence. You will not be protected by Good Samaritan laws if you try to go outside your area of training—if you try to perform an impromptu tracheotomy to save a choking victim, for example, and you are not a trained surgeon.
A nurse that works with this person should know that they are 'DNR' and would not attempt CPR... but might be forgiven for doing it anyway since the victim is not in a traditional care setting.) Bottom line-if you do it even 'mostly right', it is really hard for a layperson be sued for doing CPR in most of the US. 1. If the victim is unconscious, you have 'implied consent'- this is not part of the Good Samaritan Law, it is just the way the laws are written. In many states, even if the victim shouts 'don't help me', and goes unconscious, you can still help them under this protection.
If you didn’t know about it, you generally can’t be prosecuted for giving lifesaving CPR anyway. Medical professionals who give CPR to people with a DNR order can potentially be in trouble—if they know about the DNR. You will not be protected by Good Samaritan laws if you try to go outside your area of training—if you try to perform an impromptu tracheotomy to save a choking victim, for example, and you are not a trained surgeon.