How the Thyroid Gland Works. The thyroid is part of the endocrine system, which is made up of glands that produce, store, and release hormones into the bloodstream so the hormones can reach the body's cells. The thyroid gland uses iodine from the foods you eat to make two main hormones: 1  Triiodothyronine (T3). 2  Thyroxine (T4). 
The thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and its prohormone, thyroxine (T4), are tyrosine-based hormones produced by the thyroid gland that are primarily responsible for regulation of metabolism. Iodine is necessary for the production of T 3 and T 4. The major form of thyroid hormone in the blood is thyroxine (T 4), which has a longer half-life than T 3. In humans, the ratio of T 4 to T 3 released into the blood is roughly 20 to 1. T 4 is converted to the active T 3 (three to four times more potent than T 4) within cells by deiodinases (5'-iodinase)
Calcitonin and the Thyroid Gland In addition to having cells that secrete T3 and T4, the thyroid gland of mammals contains endocrine cells which secrete calcitonin. This hormone reduces the level of calcium in the blood as part of calcium homeostasis. 
The function of the thyroid gland is to take iodine, found in many foods, and convert it into thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid cells are the only cells in the body which can absorb iodine. These cells combine iodine and the amino acid tyrosine to make T3 and T4. Every cell in the body depends upon thyroid hormones for regulation of their metabolism. The normal thyroid gland produces about 80% T4 and about 20% T3, however, T3 possesses about four times the hormone strength as T4.
What hormones does my thyroid gland produce? The thyroid gland produces thyroxine (T4), which is a relatively inactive prohormone and lower amounts of the active hormone, triiodothyronine (T3). Collectively, T3 and T4 are referred to as the thyroid hormones. The thyroid gland is part of the endocrine system and is responsible for producing and releasing thyroid hormones into the bloodstream.
Synthesis and Secretion of Thyroid Hormones. Thyroid hormones are synthesized by mechanisms fundamentally different from what is seen in other endocrine systems. Thyroid follicles serve as both factory and warehouse for production of thyroid hormones. Each of the processes described above appears to be stimulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone from the anterior pituitary gland. Binding of TSH to its receptors on thyroid epithelial cells stimulates synthesis of the iodine transporter, thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin.
The release of thyroid hormones from the thyroid gland is controlled by thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) from the hypothalamus in the brain and by thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) produced by the pituitary gland. This forms part of a feedback loop called the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. The thyroid gland is part of the endocrine system and is responsible for producing and releasing thyroid hormones into the bloodstream.
Thyroid hormones are made by the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland makes and releases two thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid hormones affect every cell and all the organs of the body. Too much thyroid hormone speeds things up and too little thyroid hormone slows things down. They: 1  Control the rate at which your body burns calories (your metabolism).
Thyroid hormones (T 4 and T 3) are produced by the follicular cells of the thyroid gland and are regulated by TSH made by the thyrotropes of the anterior pituitary gland. The effects of T 4 in vivo are mediated via T 3 (T 4 is converted to T 3 in target tissues). The major form of thyroid hormone in the blood is thyroxine (T 4), which has a longer half-life than T 3. In humans, the ratio of T 4 to T 3 released into the blood is roughly 20 to 1. T 4 is converted to the active T 3 (three to four times more potent than T 4) within cells by deiodinases (5'-iodinase