Women with breast implants should also have mammograms. A woman who had an implant after breast cancer surgery in which the entire breast was removed (mastectomy) should ask her doctor whether she needs a mammogram of the reconstructed breast. A high-quality mammogram plus a clinical breast exam, an exam done by your doctor, is the most effective way to detect breast cancer early. Finding breast cancer early greatly improves a woman's chances for successful treatment. Like any test, mammograms have both benefits and limitations.
1 CBE is done along with mammograms and offers a chance for women and their doctor or nurse to discuss changes in their breasts, early detection testing, and factors in the woman’s history that might make her more likely to have breast cancer. American Cancer Society recommendations for early breast cancer detection in women without breast symptoms. Women age 40 and older should have a mammogram every year and should continue to do so for as long as they are in good health. 1  Current evidence supporting mammograms is even stronger than in the past. 2  In particular, recent evidence has confirmed that mammograms offer substantial benefit for women in their 40s
A mammogram is an x-ray picture of the breast. Mammograms can be used to check for breast cancer in women who have no signs or symptoms of the disease. This type of mammogram is called a screening mammogram. Screening mammograms usually involve two x-ray pictures, or images, of each breast. The x-ray images make it possible to detect tumors that cannot be felt. 
When the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommended in 2009 that routine breast cancer screenings should begin at age 50 instead of 40, controversy ensued about the benefits of screening for breast cancer and the age a woman should have her first mammogram. 
Women in their 20s and 30s should have a clinical breast exam (CBE) as part of a periodic (regular) health exam by a health professional preferably every 3 years. Starting at age 40, women should have a CBE by a health professional every year. American Cancer Society recommendations for early breast cancer detection in women without breast symptoms. Women age 40 and older should have a mammogram every year and should continue to do so for as long as they are in good health. 1  Current evidence supporting mammograms is even stronger than in the past. 2  In particular, recent evidence has confirmed that mammograms offer substantial benefit for women in their 40s
It is generally advisable for women to get their first mammogram performed at age 35 and in the event that a woman has a family history of cancer, then that age should be earlier. After the first mammogram at age 35, the next one should be at age 40 when it should be performed every other year. 
A mammogram is an X-ray picture of the breast. Doctors use a mammogram to look for early signs of breast cancer. Regular mammograms are the best tests doctors have to find breast cancer early, sometimes up to three years before it can be felt. When their breast cancer is found early, many women go on to live long and healthy lives. 
There has been heated debate in recent years over how often and at what age women should begin having mammograms to screen for breast cancer. Now researchers in the Bay Area believe they have a system that could help women make the best decision.SAN FRANCISCO --. Like a lot of women, Jacqueline Canas had her first mammogram at age 40, and she wasn't swayed by a government panel's report in 2009 suggesting that women may not need breast cancer screening until age 50.I'd rather have it, said Canas.
It is important for a woman to perform monthly BSE and have a breast examination by her doctor in addition to the mammogram in order to most effectively screen for breast cancer. The American Cancer Society recommends that a woman obtain her first baseline mammogram at the age of 40. 1 Mammograms are images of the breast tissue produced on X-ray film. 2  Mammograms are the most efficient screening method to detect early breast cancer. 3  Monthly breast self-examination and regular doctor's examinations are combined with mammography for optimal breast cancer screening.