20 Words related to asdfghjkl. 1  qwertyuiop. 2  zxcvbnm. 3  qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm. 4  qwerty. 5  plokmijnuhbygvtfcrdxeszwaq. 6  lkjhgfdsa. 7  poiuytrewq. 8  qazwsxedcrfvtgbyhnujmikolp. 9  lol. 10  asdf. 11  asdfghjkl; 12  bored. 13  keyboard. 14  mnbvcxzlkjhgfdsapoiuytrewq. 15  random. 16  tumblr. 17  mnbvcxz. 18  amazing. 19  qaz. 20  qwertyuioplkjhgfdsazxcvbnm. 1) An expression of frustration for IM; Used in desperation when no other words will do. 2) A conversation filler, also in IMing, when no one has said anything in a while. *with any of these there can be added letters as well as semi colons. It is usually a personal preference
1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 1 You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 2  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 3  You can only upload a photo or a video.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. I'm no expert, but that appears to be the sequence of keys in the middle row of the keyboard (home row, I think it is called) If you were to type those letters in the sequence, you would go from the left side of your keyboard to the right, hitting every key. As far as any hidden meaning to it, I am not aware of any. On myspace people always type this as a title on a bulletin and I have no idea what it means. Thanks. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
1. Letter's termed home row on a keyboard. These are the letters on which the fingers rest when touch typing. 2. An exclamation of anger, confusion, and/or frustration recognized in many online forums. Used when no other word seems to fit or nothing is coming to mind. a keyboard seizure. can be any combination of letters and sometimes numbers and punctuations such as, ajhfdsljhfl jhfawiuef djshfahjvbsljseh j83wiy25rufweh 0-dsaov aeq fdsd jgf73woeglvsexadshf... and so on. A: i feel asdfghjkl;' today.
Top Definition. asdfghjkl;'. a keyboard seizure. can be any combination of letters and sometimes numbers and punctuations such as, ajhfdsljhfl jhfawiuef djshfahjvbsljseh j83wiy25rufweh 0-dsaov aeq fdsd jgf73woeglvsexadshf... and so on. A: i feel asdfghjkl;' today.
ASDFGHJKL; is an acronym, abbreviation or slang word that is explained above where the ASDFGHJKL; definition is given. All A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Other 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. Other terms relating to 'asdfghjkl;': ASDFGHJKL;'. When A Feeling Cannot Be Expressed In Words. 
By typing all the letters on the keyboard in an orderly fashion (qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm) you can make your teacher think you're doing work. qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnm-This is a word that means I'm extremely bored because my stupid school's proxy server blocks all of the good gaming sites. 'QWERTYUIOP', the letters at the top of the keyboard spell out 'Typewriter' because this is the original keyboard setup on a typewriter and the word 'Typewriter' was very common, hence putting all of the letters for the word at the top.
Their means belonging to them.. The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses).