Brass Plating Brass is an alloy of copper and zinc that can be found in many different colors. Red-Brass is copper 80% by wt/zinc 20% by wt and is used mostly for a decorative finish. It is soft brass. Yellow-Brass is copper 70% by wt/zinc 30% by wt and is the popular color for plumbing hardware. It is slightly harder than the red-brass. This color is the most popular for decorative finishes. White-Brass is copper 60% by wt/zinc 40% by wt and was developed by Ford Motors as an application for plating on car bumpers. It was a substitute for nickel during the Korean War.
The preferred alloy composition for zinc-nickel plating is 12 – 15% nickel, with the remainder being zinc. This alloy gives exceptional sacrificial corrosion resistance and can be readily passivated. To achieve this alloy, zinc-nickel is usually plated from an alkaline electrolyte. For some applications, including the plating of brake castings, acid zinc-nickel can be used. Finally a topcoat can be applied to the zinc-nickel plating and trivalent passivation coatings. The choice of topcoat depends on the application. Advantages of topcoats include: 1  Predictable torque and tension characteristics. 2  Improved corrosion resistance after post-plating deformation operations.
nickel platingnickel plating all kinds of color bolts and screws. Details: nickel platingnickel plating all kinds of color bolts and screws Material Iron,stainless steel,copper and etc..Head type pan head,oval head,H.W... Xiamen Singlu Fasteners Co., Ltd.
Zinc Nickel plating can provide protection for parts even in the harshest conditions. In standard ASTM salt spray tests the coating has resisted white rust for up to 360 hours and red rust for up to 1000 hours. Below is a photo showing a sample that has been Zinc Nickel plated. It is mostly a dull gray color with just a bit of the iridescence found in Yellow Chromate Type II plating. RWM offers both of these zinc plating options to our customers and can work with special applications to provide further protection as necessary.
Widely used by industry in general, and automotive manufacturers in particular, zinc nickel gives sacrificial protection to the underlying iron or steel, that is the zinc corrodes in preference to the substrate. This ensures that use in engine bays and in contact with hot oil does not reduce corrosion resistance.When a silver coating is required, enhanced corrosion resistance can be obtained by using the seals or lacquers.The zinc nickel solution used has the following advantages over zinc electro plating.1.
Star Plating has a wide range of zinc barrel plating color possibilities to meet your plating needs!! We also do bright tin & matte tin as well cleaning & bright dipping, and we have a dedicated line for passivating. Additionally, Star Plating has adapted barrel technology to accommodate parts that previously were rack plated for as a cost-effective option for some of our customers.
You can request a bright and shiny finish like chrome plated wheels or chrome plated Harley Davidson parts, to highly corrosion resistance electroless nickel, and inexpensive corrosion resistant zinc plating processes. It is slightly harder than the red-brass. This color is the most popular for decorative finishes. White-Brass is copper 60% by wt/zinc 40% by wt and was developed by Ford Motors as an application for plating on car bumpers. It was a substitute for nickel during the Korean War.
Black Zinc Nickel plating is now available on a wide variety of connectors and accessories including proprietary Mil-DTL-38999 and Mil-C-26482. This conductive and non-reﬂ ective black ﬁ nish is approved for 500hrs salt spray endurance and is fast becoming the new Defence Industry standard. 
Trivalent Zinc. Modern Plating now offers a full range of trivalent chromate finishes (Chrome III) in clear, yellow and black for zinc, and in clear and black for Zinc-Nickel, Zinc-Cobalt, and Zinc-Iron. Tin-Zinc is available in a clear trivalent finish. (See reverse side for current specifications and availability). 