Breeding females are called Jills and spayed females are called Sprites, while breeding males are called Hobs and neutered males are called Gibs.. Ferret offspring are called Kits, whether male or female. In the wild, the breeding cycle of Jills and Hobs is dictated by temperature and length of daylight. The gestation period of a Jill is approximately 6 weeks and usually results in 5-8 Kits. The Kits are weaned between 6 and 8 weeks
Aggressiveness. Ferrets must be taught not to nip or bite, much the same way that kittens and puppies are taught what behavior is appropriate. A domestically bred ferret will usually not be vicious or aggressive, but it is in its nature to enjoy games that simulate hunting, tug-of-war, chasing, or mock combat. 
Or perhaps you have a friend who owns a ferret, and you've become curious about what kind of pet a ferret would be. The following is some basic ferret information-from the history of the ferret, to feeding requirements, to playtimes-to give you an idea of what ferret ownership will be like. History It's a common misconception that ferrets are rodents. Or perhaps you have a friend who owns a ferret, and you've become curious about what kind of pet a ferret would be. The following is some basic ferret information-from the history of the ferret, to feeding requirements, to playtimes-to give you an idea of what ferret ownership will be like. Playtime.
The name ferret is derived from the Latin furittus, meaning little thief, a likely reference to the common ferret penchant for secreting away small items. The Greek word ictis occurs in a play written by Aristophanes, The Acharnians, in 425 BC. Ferrets spend 14–18 hours a day asleep and are most active around the hours of dawn and dusk, meaning they are crepuscular. Unlike their polecat ancestors, which are solitary animals, most ferrets will live happily in social groups. A group of ferrets is commonly referred to as a business.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: In a computer or a network, a ferret is a program that searches through selected files, databases, or search engine indexes for information that meets specified search criteria. The term derives from the name of a small furry animal, commonly a pet, that burrows under things. 
Ferret. The ferret is a domestic animal thought to be native to Europe. The ferret is thought to be a subspecies of polecat and the ferret has the same long shaped body as a polecat and a weasel. The ferret is thought to have been domesticated around 2,500 years ago, which is roughly the same time that a number of animals such as the donkey and goat were put to domestic use. 
The ferret is a domesticated breed of the European polecat. For centuries the ferret has been used in Europe for hunting rats and sometimes rabbits. But both the wild polecat and its domestic relative have a rather bad reputation as chicken thieves. Definition of FERRET. 1. a: a domesticated usually albino, brownish, or silver-gray animal (Mustela putorius furo) that is descended from the European polecat b: black-footed ferret. 2. : an active and persistent searcher. — fer·rety \-ə-tē\ adjective
The history of the ferret's domestication is uncertain, like that of most other domestic animals, but it is likely that ferrets have been domesticated for at least 2,500 years. Ferrets spend 14–18 hours a day asleep and are most active around the hours of dawn and dusk, meaning they are crepuscular. Unlike their polecat ancestors, which are solitary animals, most ferrets will live happily in social groups. A group of ferrets is commonly referred to as a business.
The ferret has been a domesticated animal for 5000 years. Sketches and paintings, and even bodies, of ferrets have been found in numerous Egyptian burial sites. They have been used for rabbit and rodent hunting, both out of necessity and for sport. Ferret offspring are called Kits, whether male or female. In the wild, the breeding cycle of Jills and Hobs is dictated by temperature and length of daylight. The gestation period of a Jill is approximately 6 weeks and usually results in 5-8 Kits.