Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They usually live for about 12-15 years. They can live up to 20, but that is extremely rare. I have a sheltie and she is about ten and she sounds like the spitting image of your dog in activity. It isn't unusual for them to start slowing down at that age. It depends on quality of breeding and line, but a well bred sheltie who has been properly cared for can go as far as 18. Average is about 14-15. Source(s): Rescuer, vet tech, groomer and show exhibitor of Shetland sheepdogs for 20 years.
If your question is, How long do dogs live? my answer is, The life expectancy of the average dog is about 12 years, with a typical lifespan range of 8-16 years.. 
Characteristics and Lifespan. Shelties will typically live 11 to 15 years with proper care. Shelties innately herd so you must be careful your sheltie does not put himself in danger by herding cars or larger animals without supervision. The average sheltie is about 13 to 16 inches tall and weighs 11 to 30 pounds. Shelties colors can be black, merle or sable with a mix of white and/or tan colors. Shetland sheepdogs, also called shelties, are excellent working dogs and pets. Appearing as small collies, shelties come in multiple colors and have an average lifespan of 11 to 15 years. With regular exercise, shelties can make loving, loyal and fun additions to your family for a dozen or so year
Von Willebrand disease is an inherited bleeding disorder. In Shelties, affected dogs as a general rule are not viable and do not live long. The Sheltie carries type III of von Willebrands, which is the most severe of the three levels. There are DNA tests that were developed to find von Willebrands in Shelties. The breed was formally recognized by The Kennel Club in 1909. The Shetland Sheepdog's early history is not well known. Although of obscure origin, the sheltie is probably a descendant of small specimens of the Scottish Collie and the King Charles Spaniel.
The Shetland Sheepdog, often known as the Sheltie, is a breed of herding dog. They are small to medium dogs, and come in a variety of colors, such as sable, tri-color, and blue merle. The breed was formally recognized by The Kennel Club in 1909. The Shetland Sheepdog's early history is not well known. Although of obscure origin, the sheltie is probably a descendant of small specimens of the Scottish Collie and the King Charles Spaniel.
The average lifespan of a Shetland Sheepdog (Sheltie) is about 10-15 years. 
Today it is raised as a farm dog and family pet. They were originally a small mixed-breed dog, often 10–13 inches (250–330 mm) in height and it is thought that the original Shetland herding dogs were of Spitz type, and were crossed with collie-type sheepdogs from mainland Britain. The breed was formally recognized by The Kennel Club in 1909. The Shetland Sheepdog's early history is not well known. Although of obscure origin, the sheltie is probably a descendant of small specimens of the Scottish Collie and the King Charles Spaniel.
RE: How long do shelties live for? i have a dog that's a sheltie and he's 12 years old. he's in pretty good shape. He gets a well balanced diet for his age and i take him for a walk almost every morning i can get the chance. and of course i can give him all the love my heart can possibly give to him. i guess shelties are considered medium sized... · just now. Report Abuse. I had a sheltie cross for 15 years, she was in perfect health, besides having some bad teeth. She had been in to the vet and they said she was in perfect health, and about 2 months later she had a stroke : (After about a week we had to put her down..