No. Although it is less dense, continental crust is much thicker than oceanic crust. Continental crust is thicker, averaging somewhere is the twenty to thirty mile range. Ocea … nic crust is in the 3-6 mile range on average. 33 people found this useful. 
Continental crust is also less dense than oceanic crust, whose density is about 2.9 g/cm 3. Continental crust is considerably thicker than oceanic crust, mostly 25 to 70 km versus the average thickness of the oceanic crust of around 7–10 km. About 40% of Earth's surface is now overlaid by continental crust. Continental crust makes up about 70% of the volume of Earth's crust
Subduction zones. Subduction zones form when an oceanic plate collides with another oceanic plate or continental plate. The continental crust is lighter and less dense than oceanic crust. Continental crust's density is approximately 2.7 grams per cubic centimeter. Oceanic crust is thinner and the average density is about 3.3 cubic centimeters. When the two crustal plates converge the oceanic plate always bends and subducts beneath a continental plate. A convergent boundary forms when two continental plates collide. Neither plate subducts because the crusts have approximately the same density. Instead, the rocks are smashed together causing them to recrystallize due to the intense heat and pressure from the colliding plates.
The top layer of the Earth's surface is called the crust (it lies on top of the plates). Oceanic crust (the thin crust under the oceans) is thinner and denser than continental crust. Crust is constantly being created and destroyed; oceanic crust is more active than continental crust. 
Continental crust generally rests on top of oceanic crust and is often called granitic. It is the main crustal unit forming Earth's major continental land masses and a few continental islands (like Greenland, Madagascar, and California's Channel Islands). 
Oceanic plates are thinner and younger. Together these plates form the lithosphere. Earth's Tectonic Plates, USGS. Continental plates. Igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks form the continents. The basement rocks of the continents are granitic. The minerals in granitic rocks are lighter than the oceanic crust.
Oceanic crust is the uppermost layer of an oceanic tectonic plate. The crust overlies the solidified and uppermost layer of the mantle. The crust and the solid mantle layer together comprise an oceanic plate. The plates of the Earth together are referred to as the lithosphere. Oceanic crust is the result of erupted mantle material originating from below the plate, cooled and in most instances, modified chemically by seawater. This occurs mostly at mid-ocean ridges, but also at scattered hotspots, and also in rare but powerful occurences known as flood basalt eruptions. Oceanic crust is significantly simpler than continental crust and generally can be divided in three layers. 1  Layer 1 is on an average 0.4 km thick. 2  It consists of unconsolidated or semiconsolidated sediments, usually thin or even not present near the mid-ocean ridges but thickens farther away from the ridge.
The density of the oceanic crust is about 3.0 g/cm3. The continental crust has a lower density. This difference in the average densities allows many natural phenomenon to occur on and below the surface of the Earth. The oceanic crust scarcely floats on the mantle. The oceanic crust undergoes a peculiar phenomenon. For the oceanic crust, the thickness is around 3 to 6 miles which is about 5 to 10 kilometers. The oceanic crust is thinner than the continental crust. Continental Crust. The continental crust accounts for 40% of