Color Purple-Violet. Purple is the color of good judgment. It is the color of people seeking spiritual fulfillment. It is said if you surround yourself with purple you will have peace of mind. Purple is a good color to use in meditation. Purple has been used to symbolize magic and mystery, as well as royalty. Being the combination of red and blue, the warmest and coolest colors, purple is believed to be the ideal color. Most children love the color purple. Purple is the color most favored by artists
Spiritual Meaning of the Color Purple ... Purple has long been the color of royalty, signifying nobility. It also represents ceremony, spirituality and the realm of mystery. In addition the color purple means sacred wisdom and enlightenment. Spiritual Meaning of the Color Red .. The color red is vibrant and full of life, it has a range of meanings from love and passion to fiery anger, it excites and energizes. Red is the color of fire, and power. Red holds symbolic meaning of all things intense and passionate. Red is the color of the first or base chakra.
Purple or violet assists those who seek the meaning of life and spiritual fulfillment-it expands our awareness, connecting us to a higher consciousness. For this reason it is associated with transformation of the soul and the philosophers of the world are often attracted to it. From a color psychology perspective, purple and violet promote harmony of the mind and the emotions, contributing to mental balance and stability, peace of mind, a link between the spiritual and the physical worlds, between thought and activity. Violet and purple support the practice of meditation.
The Meanings of Violet, or what is also referred to as Purple are closely linked with our subconscious thoughts of royalty and spirituality. Remember that the meanings of violet or any other color are cultural and psychological. It’s not an exact science but interesting all the same. 
Deep Purple: Dark purple is related to higher spiritual attainment. A powerful color, it can also indicate arrogance and ruthlessness. To go to the meaning of colors: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, turquoise, pink, magenta, brown, gray, black, white, silver, gold. From a color psychology perspective, purple and violet promote harmony of the mind and the emotions, contributing to mental balance and stability, peace of mind, a link between the spiritual and the physical worlds, between thought and activity. Violet and purple support the practice of meditation.
Purple has been used to symbolize magic and mystery. Purple is a favorite of creative people. Whether wearing it, living in it, or creating with it, purple is a color for the adventurous heart with spiritual leanings and a flair for drama. This is the heart that knows the magic of purple. 
Jennifer Bourn. This post is part of the Color Meaning Blog Series, detailing the meanings associated with colors such as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple, grey, black, white, brown, pink, turquoise, gold, silver, and beige. Purple combines the calm stability of blue and the fierce energy of red. The color purple is often associated with royalty, nobility, luxury, power, and ambition. Purple also represents meanings of wealth, extravagance, creativity, wisdom, dignity, grandeur, devotion, peace, pride, mystery, independence, and magic. 
The Meanings of Purple. Purple’s rarity in nature and the expense of creating the color and has given purple a supernatural aura for centuries. Purple is also the most powerful wavelength of the rainbow – and it’s a color with a powerful history that has evolved over time. In fact, the origins of the symbolism of purple are more significant and interesting than those of any other color.
The colour purple represents psychic abilities and the imagination. The traditional purple colour meaning is that of spiritual fulfilment. The meaning of purple is also associated with royalty, nobility and power. Purple is such a deeply comforting, rich and engulfing colour. 