Candle the eggs after 7 to 10 days. Candling the eggs is when you use a light source to view how much space the embryo occupies within an egg. After 7 to 10 days, you should see development of the embryo. Candling allows you to remove eggs with embryos that are not viable.
Pekin duck eggs are kept in a setter for 25 days and then transferred on the 25th day to a hatcher where they remain until they hatch on the 28th day. Eggs are automatically turned while in the setter (usually hourly). It is not necessary to turn eggs in the hatcher.
Clean eggs keep the incubator clean and give you a higher hatch rate. As you are collecting the duck eggs for hatching, keep them a room temperature of 65* to 75*F and turn them once a day. I put mine in an egg carton, small side down, and support one end of the egg carton on a book. To turn the eggs, I change the end of the carton that is raised.
Get ready for hatching. The eggs should begin to hatch at day 28. After hatching the chicks will need to dry off at least 75% of the way in the incubator before you move them to the brooder. Your brooder should be an area large enough to accommodate your ducklings, giving them at least 6 sq. in. per duckling.
Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions.
Most breeds require about 28 days of incubation. The similarities in hatching duck eggs to other eggs are that you need the same temperature (about 99.5 degrees F), the duck eggs need to be turned and you'll need a safe environment for them. A duck incubator can be the same incubator you use for other eggs.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days.