48. Lyme disease is an infection caused by being bitten by an infected tick. The first and typical symptom is usually a rash that spreads out from the site of the tick bite. Left untreated, the germs (bacteria) can spread to other areas of the body. Lyme disease is an illness caused by being bitten by a tick that is infected with a germ (bacterium) called borrelia. There are various types of this bacterium but Borrelia burgdorferi causes Lyme disease.
Lyme disease is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected ticks of the Ixodes genus. Usually, the tick must be attached for 36 to 48 hours before the bacteria can spread. Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe. Infections are most common in the spring and early summer
Lyme Disease History. Lyme disease, sometimes referred to as Lyme infection, is a bacterial illness, transmitted to humans by the bite of deer ticks (Ixodes ticks) carrying a bacterium known as Borrelia burgdorferi. 
1 Lyme disease is an infection caused by the corkscrew-shaped bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, a member of the family of spirochetes. Lyme Disease Lyme disease is caused by bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected blacklegged ticks. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. Steps to prevent Lyme disease include using insect repellent, removing ticks promptly, applying pesticides, and reducing tick habitat. How ticks spread Lyme disease Lyme disease bacteria, Borrelia burgdorferi, are spread through the bite of infected ticks.
Caused by the Borrelia burgdorferi bacterium, Lyme disease is transmitted by the bite of certain species of ticks. The bacterium, normally found in mice, squirrels and other small mammals, does not harm these animals—or the deer the ticks feed on—but causes potentially serious disease when transmitted to people. Lyme disease (return to top) Overview Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, which is transmitted to people by the bite of infected ticks (Ixodes scapularis or Ixodes pacificus).
Lyme disease is a bacterial infection caused by the bite of an infected deer tick. Untreated, the disease can cause a number of health problems. Patients treated with antibiotics in the early stage of the infection usually recover rapidly and completely. 
Lyme disease is an infection caused by a bacteria called a spirochete. The disease is spread to humans by the bites of deer ticks infected with this bacteria. Deer ticks are tiny black-brown creatures. They live in forests or grassy, wooded, marshy areas near rivers, lakes, or oceans. 
Lyme disease is caused by Borrelia burgdorferi bacteria. Infected ticks spread the bacteria by biting people or animals. Two types of ticks carry the Lyme disease bacteria in the U.S. They are: 1  Deer ticks. 2  They spread the disease in the Northeast and Midwest. 3  Western black-legged ticks. 4  They spread the disease along the Pacific coast, mostly in northern California and Oregon.
The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States. 