A bushfire is a wildfire that burns out of control spreading across vegetated regions of bushland. In order for a bushfire to be catastrophic, the right conditions must be present. Most bushfires happen in times when temperatures are high. In addition, conditions must be dry. Severe bushfires may burn all the vegetation in a particular area, while more moderate fires will, generally, cause less damage to the natural surroundings. The most obvious result of fire is the loss of plant and animal life. When an area is burned out, vegetation is destroyed as it was used by the fire as fuel.
Fire caused by lightning. The basic factors which determine whether a bushfire will occur include the presence of fuel, oxygen and an ignition source. More specifically, fire intensity and the speed at which a bushfire spreads will depend on ambient temperature, fuel load, fuel moisture, wind speed and slope angle. 
Bushfires are fires which occur in the Australian bush, usually native bushland, which quickly spread out of control. They may also occur in grasslands.Bushfires may last a ma … tter of hours, or up to three weeks, as in the case of the deadly 2009 Black Saturday bushfires. Bushfire is also the general term for any grassfire that occurs in rural areas. Bushfires are common in Australia's southeast up to the Queensland/New South Wales border during the summer months, and again further north around Rockhampton.
A bushfire is a wildfire that happens in the Australian bush. Bush is the word for scrub, woodland or grassland of Australia and New Zealand. In south east and south west of Australia, bushfires are most common in the summer and early autumn. In the north of Australia, bushfires usually happen during winter which is the dry season. Many Australian plants burn easily.
Some of the most intense, extensive and deadly bushfires commonly occur during droughts and heat waves, such as the 2009 Southern Australia heat wave, which precipitated the conditions during the 2009 Black Saturday bushfires in which 173 people lost their lives. Bushfires in Australia can occur all year-round, though the severity and the bushfire season varies by region. These seasons are commonly grouped into years such as  2006-07 Australian bushfire season  and typically run from June one year until May the next year.
Passionate about all things Australian. Bushfires are fires which occur in the Australian bush, usually native bushland, which quickly spread out of control. They may last a matter of hours, or up to three weeks, as in the case of the deadly 2009 Black Saturday bushfires. Bushfire is also the general term for any grassfire that occurs in rural areas. Bushfires are common in Australia's southeast up to the Queensland/New South Wales border during the summer months, and again further north around Rockhampton.
Fuel. Anything that burns is fuel for a fire, in particular leaf litter (which is the accumulation of leaves, twigs, bark and rubbish on the ground), undergrowth (shrubs, grass, seedlings), trees and other vegetation. This is because fuels are found on the ground all the way up to the top of the trees, and where there are fuels fire can burn so fires can be quite small but can also reach up to 30 metres. An important term to understand is ladder fuels, which is any vegetation that grows between the ground fuel up to about 2 metres.
Bushfires and grassfires are common throughout Australia. Grassfires are fast moving, passing in five to ten seconds and smouldering for minutes. They have a low to medium intensity and primarily damage crops, livestock and farming infrastructure, such as fences. Bushfires are generally slower moving, but have a higher heat output. This means they pass in two to five minutes, but they can smoulder for days. Fire in the crown of the tree canopy can move rapidly. Bushfires are an intrinsic part of Australia's environment
ACT Emergency Services Agency / Community information / Bushfires / What is a bushfire. A bushfire is a fire that burns in grass, bush or woodland and can threaten life, property and the environment. This is because fuels are found on the ground all the way up to the top of the trees, and where there are fuels fire can burn so fires can be quite small but can also reach up to 30 metres. An important term to understand is ladder fuels, which is any vegetation that grows between the ground fuel up to about 2 metres.
Victoria has seen the majority of the deadliest and largest bushfires in Australia, most notably the 2009 Black Saturday fires, where 173 people were killed, around 2,000 homes and structures were destroyed, towns were gutted, and some, such as Marysville, were destroyed. Bushfires in Australia can occur all year-round, though the severity and the bushfire season varies by region. These seasons are commonly grouped into years such as  2006-07 Australian bushfire season  and typically run from June one year until May the next year.