That, in a nutshell, is why children should not be tried as adults. The research is clear that children in the adult criminal justice system are more likely to reoffend than if they are held in the juvenile justice system. Patrick is one of about 1,200 children under the age of 18 who are being held in adult prisons across the country. The number is about 10,000 when local adult jails are included. In Alabama, children as young as 14 can be charged and convicted as adults for any alleged offense.
No not usually. For smaller offenses, such as robbery, drug charges, and assault children should not be tried as adults. Children do not have the capacity to think as adults do, and sometimes do not see the consequences of their actions, and that these actions can hurt others. If you don't think he needs to be prosecuted as an adult well....YOU'RE CRAZY!!! I'm 15 myself and I'm highly for prosecuting children as adults. Not all children should be but for kids who commit gruesome crimes like the ones I shared, then yes they should be prosecuted as adults. That's it end of story.
no it bad. They should not be tried as adults because sure they can do it over and over but give them chance, they need one. They are weaker than adults and have a whole life to live and live. Some go to juvenile detention for a lesson but do not be that harsh to children. If you don't think he needs to be prosecuted as an adult well....YOU'RE CRAZY!!! I'm 15 myself and I'm highly for prosecuting children as adults. Not all children should be but for kids who commit gruesome crimes like the ones I shared, then yes they should be prosecuted as adults. That's it end of story.
Kids should definitely not be tried as adults in any circumstances. This is not only wrong but also ridiculous to think that a kid that is only ten or thirteen years old can be tried as a adult and possibly put in jail with forty-five year old murderers. In one of Jessica Wilde’s papers, she wrote about two 10-year-old kids murdered a 2-year-old baby.
Kids should not be. I don't think that kids should be tried as adults because they are not usually use to things like this and there brains are not fully developed so it not all there fault also kids are also tempted to do things because of peer pleasure and it is not there fault. Report Post. (Maximum 900 words). Yes, kids should be tried as adults. If they committed and chose to do it, when they didn't have to, they should be punished for what they did just like adults would. They didn't have to commit a crime, but they did. Therefore if a child commits a serious crime, they should be tried as adults for wha
In most states, a juvenile offender must be at least 16 to be eligible for waiver to adult court. But, in a number of states, minors as young as 13 could be subjected to a waiver petition. And a few states allow children of any age to be tried as adults for certain types of crimes, such as homicide. The current trend among states is to lower the minimum age of eligibility for waiver into adult court.
Yes, most of the time, I think kids should be tried as adults. Specifically, if the crime is murder. If someone is old enough to commit the crime, then they are old enough to serve the time. I do not think they should be thrown into the regular prison system until they are of age though. Yes, kids should be tried as adults. If they committed and chose to do it, when they didn't have to, they should be punished for what they did just like adults would. They didn't have to commit a crime, but they did. Therefore if a child commits a serious crime, they should be tried as adults for wha
Fourteen states have no minimum age for trying children as adults. Children as young as eight have been prosecuted as adults. Some states set the minimum age at 10, 12, or 13. EJI believes that the adult prosecution of any child under age 14 for any crime should be banned. Across the United States, thousands of children have been sentenced as adults and sent to adult prisons. Nearly 3000 nationwide have been sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole.
Yes, children should be tried as adults. There are some cases in which children killed other kids just because they wanted to or they were thrilled.. If kids actually understand their actions then they should also understand their consequences. If you don't think he needs to be prosecuted as an adult well....YOU'RE CRAZY!!! I'm 15 myself and I'm highly for prosecuting children as adults. Not all children should be but for kids who commit gruesome crimes like the ones I shared, then yes they should be prosecuted as adults. That's it end of story.
1 Schwartz: Jordan Brown should not be tried as an adult for crime committed at 11. 2  Writes: Kids incompetent to be tried as adults; trying them as juveniles not excusing crime. 3  It's in society's enlightened self-interest, Schwartz says, to try youngsters in juvenile court. 1 Robert Schwartz tells of 9-year-old tried as adult; he was put on probation, received no treatment. 2  Schwartz: Jordan Brown should not be tried as an adult for crime committed at 11. 3