Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT) is a framework created by ISACA for information technology (IT) management and IT governance.
Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT) is a governance control framework that helps organizations meet today’s business challenges in the areas of regulatory compliance, risk management and aligning IT strategy with organizational goals.
COBIT 5 is the only business framework for the governance and management of enterprise IT. It is the product of a global task force and development team from ISACA, a nonprofit, independent association of nearly 100,000 governance, security, risk and assurance professionals in 160 countries.
COBIT 4.1 is an IT governance framework and supporting toolset that allows managers to bridge the gap between control requirements, technical issues and business risks.
COBIT® is a globally accepted framework, providing an end-to-end business view of the governance of enterprise IT. It is driven by thought leadership and guidance from business, IT and governance experts around the world. COBIT® is the only business framework for the governance and management
COBIT 5 is the latest iteration of ISACA's globally accepted framework for the governance and management of enterprise IT. It provides globally accepted principles, analytical tools and models to increase trust in, and the value derived from, information systems.
What is COBIT 5? It's the leading framework for the governance and management of enterprise IT. Why use COBIT 5? Improve performance with a balanced framework for creating value and reducing risk. Who uses COBIT 5? Managers responsible for the performance, risk and governance
Insights. The COBIT 5 framework for the governance and management of enterprise IT is a leading-edge business optimization and growth roadmap that leverages proven practices, global thought leadership and ground-breaking tools to inspire IT innovation and fuel business success.