This Week's Best Sellers. Tree leaves of reds, oranges, purples, yellows, browns, bronzes, and mottled grays are just the basic colors that attract the eye in the fall. Add all of the muted colors and the multitudes of shades of these basic colors and then you have a fall colored tree. These leaves could be referred to as eye candy. Most tree descriptions will contain the words fall color for trees that are showy in the fall and most of these descriptions will give the predominant color of the leaves. There are numerous cultivars of trees that are specifically selected for fall color exhibitions.
Choose a shade tree that provides fall color. Enjoy the trees leaf displays for three seasons, spring, summer and fall by choosing a fall color tree. Most tree descriptions will contain the words fall color for trees that are showy in the fall and most of these descriptions will give the predominant color of the leaves. There are numerous cultivars of trees that are specifically selected for fall color exhibitions.
it depends on the circumference and the diameter of the tree itself. mainly maple trees and often oak trees but very occasionally will you find a birch tree that is big. maybe … if you go look your back yard and find some sort of tree that has a big trunk the you will find out what kind of tree it is. 
I would presume that the emerald tree boa's color is emerald (green). EDIT: The adult snakes are a vivid green, BUT-juveniles vary in colour from pale orange to brick-red. … They attain their adult colouration at around 9-12 months. I have several Rose of Sharon trees, and they range in color from a very pale pink to an almost red color. The strange part about this is that most of them came from t … he same original tree as rooting.
Typically tree trunks are thought of as being in various shades of brown. They can have many different colours to them, however. Grey is a common colour in tree trunks, as is green when they're younger. Specific species of trees usually have specific bark colour at specific times of year so you should look up the trees you're interested in if you need more information. 
In botany, a tree is a perennial plant with an elongated stem, or trunk, supporting branches and leaves in most species. In some usages, the definition of a tree may be narrower, including only woody plants with secondary growth, plants that are usable as lumber or plants above a specified height. A tree typically has many secondary branches supported clear of the ground by the trunk. This trunk typically contains woody tissue for strength, and vascular tissue to carry materials from one part of the tree to another. For most trees it is surrounded by a layer of bark which serves as a protective barrier.
Several species of oak exhibit red fall color, and this hue is more likely to appear unaccompanied by brown. Pin oak (Quercus palustris), hardy to USDA zones 4 through 8, turns a deep red in the autumn, while scarlet oak (Quercus coccinea), hardy to USDA zones 4 through 9, is aptly named for its scarlet fall foliage. Oak trees (Quercus spp.) are either evergreen or deciduous, depending on species. Some oaks, such as the evergreen Coast Live Oak (Quercus agrifolia), hardy to U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 and 10, do not lose their leaves in fall.
Blooms. The most common color for dogwood blooms is white but this can vary from species to species. The aurora dogwood (Cornus x “Rutban”) has creamy white blooms with a velvety texture. Their petals overlap one another and can hide the green foliage in the spring. The flowering dogwood (Cornus florida) has reddish brown bark that is commonly used to create tool handles. The red osier dogwood (Cornus stolonifera) may have the most brilliant colored stems, twigs and bark of the dogwood species. The green colored stems begin to turn a bright red to purplish-red in late summer.
Brown Fall Color. Many oaks that turn yellow or red in the fall will also exhibit some brown fall color concurrent with other colors, such as the chestnut oak’s yellow and brown fall foliage, or the brownish-red fall color of the red oak. Oak trees (Quercus spp.) are either evergreen or deciduous, depending on species. Some oaks, such as the evergreen Coast Live Oak (Quercus agrifolia), hardy to U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 and 10, do not lose their leaves in fall.