Wissler map of United States showing cultures areas. In anthropology and geography, a cultural region, cultural sphere, cultural area or culture area refers to a geographical area with one relatively homogeneous human activity or complex of activities (culture). 
A great example of a physical boundary is a mountain. For example, the Pyrenees Mountains, which serve to separate France and Spain, are a physical boundary. So are the Ural Mountains which separate Europe and Asia. Along with mountains, oceans, seas, even deserts are examples of physical boundaries. Moving away from physical boundaries, we now come to cultural boundaries. Also called an ethnographic boundary, a cultural boundary is a boundary line that runs along differences in ethnicity, such as language and religion. When speaking of cultural boundaries based on language, a great example of this is found within the country of Canada, where French is the official language of Quebec. It is also spoken in pockets or other provinces, whereas much of the rest of the country speaks English
Political boundaries are often formed by physical boundaries. An example of this is the Rio Grande River that separates the US from Mexico. An ethnographic boundary or a cultural boundary is a boundary line that runs along differences in ethnicity. Moving away from physical boundaries, we now come to cultural boundaries. Also called an ethnographic boundary, a cultural boundary is a boundary line that runs along differences in ethnicity, such as language and religion. When speaking of cultural boundaries based on language, a great example of this is found within the country of Canada, where French is the official language of Quebec. It is also spoken in pockets or other provinces, whereas much of the rest of the country speaks English
Best Answer: There are different kinds of cultural boundaries. It could come in the form of a religious, ethnic, or language boundary. Religious: When Britain partitioned India and created Pakistan, it created a religious cultural boundary. Muslims were reorganized into Pakistan and Hindus into India. Another example is in Ireland with the UK Protestants in the North and Roman Catholics in the Republic of Ireland. What is an example of a cultural boundary? I am doing homework and I cannot finish this ONE last question! does anyone have knowledge on this subject? thank you.
Here are examples of a divergent boundary: The Mid-Atlantic ridge, Red Sea Rift, Baikal Rift Zone, East African Rift, East Pacific Rise, Gakkel Ridge, Galapagos Rise, Explorer … Ridge, Pacific-Antarctic Ridge, and the West Antarctic Rift. An actual example of a converging plate boundary would be the Indian-Eurasian Plate Boundary whic … h is creating the Himalayan Mountain Range. Other convergent plates can create trenches such as the Mariana Trench, which is the lowest place on the surface of the Earth.
A cultural boundary refers to the presence of some kind of cultural differencecultural boundaries are characteristic of all human societies, traditional as well as modern. A border is a social construct that is political in origin. Across a border power is exercised, as in the political border between two nations. 
There are different kinds of cultural boundaries. It could come in the form of a religious, ethnic, or language boundary. Religious: When Britain partitioned India and created Pakistan, it created a religious cultural boundary. An actual example of a converging plate boundary would be the Indian-Eurasian Plate Boundary whic … h is creating the Himalayan Mountain Range. Other convergent plates can create trenches such as the Mariana Trench, which is the lowest place on the surface of the Earth.
Another example is in Ireland with the UK Protestants in the North and Roman Catholics in the Republic of Ireland. Language: Most examples come from Europe. France, Spain, Portugal, etc all based their boundary lines because of the language people spoke. An actual example of a converging plate boundary would be the Indian-Eurasian Plate Boundary whic … h is creating the Himalayan Mountain Range. Other convergent plates can create trenches such as the Mariana Trench, which is the lowest place on the surface of the Earth.