In humans, the duodenum is a hollow jointed tube about 25–38 cm (10–15 inches) long connecting the stomach to the jejunum. It begins with the duodenal bulb and ends at the suspensory muscle of duodenum. 
duodenum. the first or proximal portion of the small intestine, extending from the pylorus to the jejunum. It plays an important role in digestion of food because the bile and pancreatic ducts empty into it. See also digestive system. (doo´ədē´nəm), n the first, shortest, and most fixed portion of the small intestine. The duodenum courses from the pyloric valve of the stomach and terminates in a junction with the jejunum at the duodenojejunal flexure.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The beginning portion of the small intestine, starting at the lower end of the stomach and extending to the jejunum is called the duodenum. The ileocecal valve is a sphincter muscle and its function is to allow the passage of digested food fr … om the small intestine into the large intestine, as well as preventing the reflux of the contents of the large intestine back into the ileum (the last part of the small intestine). 3 people found this useful.
Pyloric Sphincter. The pyloric sphincter is a band of smooth muscle at the junction between the pylorus of the stomach and the duodenum of the small intestine. It plays an important role in digestion, where it acts as a valve to controls the flow of partially digested food from the stomach to the small intestine. The pyloric sphincter prevents the regurgitation of chyme from the duodenum into the stomach. It also controls the flow of chyme into the intestine, which provides the intestines with a manageable volume of chyme from which to absorb nutrients.
The opening between the stomach and the small intestine is called the Pyloric Sphincter-it is a ring of muscle that contracts when the stomach is full, to seal off the openin … g to the small intestine whilst foodstuffs are liquified in the stomach. The ileocecal valve is a sphincter muscle and its function is to allow the passage of digested food fr … om the small intestine into the large intestine, as well as preventing the reflux of the contents of the large intestine back into the ileum (the last part of the small intestine). 3 people found this useful.
The small intestine is the part of the gastrointestinal tract located between the stomach and large intestine. This long structure is divided into 3 parts: duodenum, j... 1 Number of videos 4 Number of quizzes 69 Number of terms 27 Number of articles. 
The pylorus is the furthest part of the stomach that connects to the duodenum. It is divided into two parts, the antrum, which connects to the body of the stomach, and the pyloric canal, which connects to the duodenum. The pyloric canal ends as the pyloric orifice, which marks the junction between the stomach and the duodenum. The orifice is surrounded by a sphincter, a band of muscle, called the pyloric sphincter. The word pylorus comes from the Greek πυλωρός, gate guard.
Located inferior to the stomach, the duodenum is a 10-12 inch (25-30 cm) long C-shaped, hollow tube. The duodenum is a part of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, attached to the pyloric sphincter of the stomach on its superior end and to the jejunum of the small intestine on its inferior end.... Click to read more below. The duodenum is the first and shortest segment of the small intestine. 
Overview. The small intestine (small bowel) lies between the stomach and the large intestine (large bowel) and includes the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The small intestine is so called because its lumen diameter is smaller than that of the large intestine, although it is longer in length than the large intestine.
It is found at the border of the stomach’s final segment, the pylorus, and the small intestine’s first segment, the duodenum.... Click to read more below. The pyloric sphincter is a band of smooth muscle at the junction between the pylorus of the stomach and the duodenum of the small intestine. It plays an important role in digestion, where it acts as a valve to controls the flow of partially digested food from the stomach to the small intestine. The pyloric sphincter prevents the regurgitation of chyme from the duodenum into the stomach. It also controls the flow of chyme into the intestine, which provides the intestines with a manageable volume of chyme from which to absorb nutrients.