Suffixes. A suffix is a group of letters placed at the end of a word to make a new word. A suffix can make a new word in one of two ways: 1  inflectional (grammatical): for example, changing singular to plural (dog → dog s), or changing present tense to past tense (walk → walk ed).
In linguistics, a suffix (also sometimes termed postfix or ending or, in older literature, affix) is an affix which is placed after the stem of a word. Common examples are case endings, which indicate the grammatical case of nouns or adjectives, and verb endings, which form the conjugation of verbs. Particularly in the study of Semitic languages, a suffix is called an afformative, as they can alter the form of the words. In Indo-European studies, a distinction is made between suffixes and endings (see Proto-Indo-European root). A word-final segment that is somewhere between a free morpheme and a bound morpheme is known as a suffixoid or a semi-suffix (e.g., English-like or German-freundlich 'friendly').
Definition. A suffix is a letter or group of letters added to the end of a word or root (i.e., a base form), serving to form a new word or functioning as an inflectional ending. Adjective: suffixal. There are two primary types of suffixes in English: 1  A derivational suffix (such as the addition of-ly to an adjective to form an adverb) indicates what type of word it is. 2  An inflectional suffix (such as the addition of-s to a noun to form a plural) tells something about the word's grammatical behavior
A name suffix, in the Western English-language naming tradition, follows a person's full name and provides additional information about the person. As time passes, the III suffix goes to the son of either Patrick Jr or Patrick II, whomever is first to have a son named Patrick. This is one way it is possible and correct for a Junior to father a IV. Another example involves President Ulysses S. Grant and his sons Frederick, Ulysses Jr, and Jesse.
1 Not all suffixes can be added to all roots. 2  For example, the adjective beautiful is formed by adding the suffix-ful to the noun beauty, and the noun ugliness is formed by adding the suffix-ness to the adjective ugly. 3  But you won't find * ugliful in your dictionary--or in standard English. Some of the common suffixes in English. A suffix is a letter or a group of letters attached to the end of a word to form a new word or to change the grammatical function (or part of speech) of the original word. For example, the verb read is made into the noun reader by adding the suffix-er.
1 A derivational suffix (such as the addition of-ly to an adjective to form an adverb) indicates what type of word it is. 2  An inflectional suffix (such as the addition of-s to a noun to form a plural) tells something about the word's grammatical behavior. Adjective: suffixal. There are two primary types of suffixes in English: 1 
In computer system file names, a suffix is a convention for having one or more characters appended to a file name (usually separated from the file name with a dot) so that it can be distinguished from other files or grouped together with similar types of files. A suffix is something added at the end of a word that conditions its usage or meaning.
1 For example, the adjective beautiful is formed by adding the suffix-ful to the noun beauty, and the noun ugliness is formed by adding the suffix-ness to the adjective ugly. 2  But you won't find * ugliful in your dictionary--or in standard English. Some of the common suffixes in English. A suffix is a letter or a group of letters attached to the end of a word to form a new word or to change the grammatical function (or part of speech) of the original word. For example, the verb read is made into the noun reader by adding the suffix-er.
Suffix. In linguistics, a suffix is an affix which is placed after the stem of a word. Common examples are case endings, which indicate the grammatical case of nouns or adjectives, and verb endings, which form the conjugation of verbs. Particularly in the study of Semitic languages, a suffix is called an afformative, as they can alter the form of the words to which they are fixed.