1 Plenum chamber, a chamber intended to contain air, gas, or liquid at positive pressure. 2  Plenism, or Horror vacui (physics) the concept that nature abhors a vacuum. 3  Plenum (meeting) , a meeting of a deliberative assembly in which all members are present; contrast with quorum. Plenum may refer to: 1 
The solution is to provide a large-volume plenum chamber between the inlet and the cylinders. This has two benefits: it evens out the difference in path restriction between cylinders (distribution across space), secondly it provides a large-volume buffer against pressure changes (distribution over time). These gave rise to the notion of 17th century 'plenum' as the opposite of vacuum, and all things being either Plenum or Vacuum. By the 19th century, the development of mechanical fans and industrial machinery had provided another, more technical use.
A plenum chamber is a pressurised housing containing a gas or fluid (typically air) at positive pressure (pressure higher than surroundings). These gave rise to the notion of 17th century 'plenum' as the opposite of vacuum, and all things being either Plenum or Vacuum. By the 19th century, the development of mechanical fans and industrial machinery had provided another, more technical use.
It ensures, through the use of baffles, that air pressure is equalised for the purpose of even air distribution. In terms of an outdoor digital signage enclosure, a plenum chamber ensures both the even distribution of air and resistance to water ingress during pressurised wash down. This is achieved through the optimal placement of baffles within the plenum. An Armagard Plenum Chamber. 
A plenum chamber is a chamber that operates at a positive pressure  and is filled with fluid or air. It is used to increase air flow in  enclosed spaces. The positive pressu … re draws air from the space  into channels, which causes air movement. The pumping chambers are the lower two chambers, the ventricles. The right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs, and the left ventricle pumps blood to the body through the aorta … . The ventricles are the pumping chambers'.
plenum chamber. A component of a jet engine designed to hold air at a pressure slightly higher than that of the surrounding air. Plenum chambers stabilize the pressure of the air before it enters the compressor. An enclosed space in which a plenum condition exists; air is forced into it for slow distribution through ducts.
Furnace Plenum. A plenum is a compartment, air space or chamber that is filled with air that is then distributed elsewhere. A furnace plenum then, is such an air chamber that gets filled directly (and quickly) by a large blower that is above, below or adjacent to it. Air ducts connected to a furnace or heater plenum carry this air to various registers around a house or building.
plenum chamber. (engineering). An enclosed space in which a plenum condition exists; air is forced into it for slow distribution through ducts.
Ad. When used in engines and other machinery, the plenum chamber acts as an exhaust chamber to help cool the engine or motor. A positive-pressure plenum space is situated between the air intake assembly and the valves on the engine. Fresh air remains in the plenum until the valves open, allowing air into the engine. These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. A plenum chamber is essentially a type of ventilation or air transfer system. These air-filled chambers can be found on vehicles and machinery, or in the floors and ceilings of a room.