Fruits are simple carbohydrates–not complex. They contain fructose, which is a monosaccharide, meaning it only has one sugar in its molecule. Complex carbs are composed bonds of three or more sugars. These type of carbs are called starches. White rice and white bread are complex carbohydrates and they increase the blood glucose levels much faster than any fruit, which is a simple carb.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. 
Simple carbohydrates are a major source of energy for the body and are found in many nutrient-dense foods, including fruit, fruit juice and dairy products. All of these foods also contain a substantial amount of vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals and should be consumed as part of a healthy and well-balanced diet. Carbohydrates are primarily found in plant-based foods, such as grains, fruits and vegetables, which contain many nutrients. However, carbohydrates can also be found in other foods containing added sugars and sweeteners, and these foods have minimal nutritional value.
Examples of Simple Carbohydrate Foods. Because simple carbohydrates exhibit a sweet flavor, most sweet-tasting foods contain simple carbohydrates. Fruits, such as bananas, mangoes and raisins, 100 percent fruit juice and honey are all high in simple carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are primarily found in plant-based foods, such as grains, fruits and vegetables, which contain many nutrients. However, carbohydrates can also be found in other foods containing added sugars and sweeteners, and these foods have minimal nutritional value.
Simple carbohydrates are the most basic unit of carbohydrates, which consist of a single sugar molecule or two joined sugar molecules. Some examples of foods that contain simp … le carbohydrates are soda, fruit juice, table sugar, honey and most packaged cereals. 
Simple carbohydrates include monosaccharides (one-unit sugars) and disaccharides (two-unit sugars). Monosaccharides include glucose, fructose and galactose. These can be absorbed directly and don't require further breakdown from enzymes, unlike disaccharides and polysaccharides. As a dietitian, I'm often asked to explain the difference between simple and complex carbohydrates. While most people have heard that complex carbohydrates are better for you than simple carbohydrates, what's often unclear is how the two differ, and why the differences between the two affect your health.
Confidence votes 367. Simple carbohydrates are the most basic unit of carbohydrates, which consist of a single sugar molecule or two joined sugar molecules. Some examples of foods that contain simple carbohydrates are soda, fruit juice, table sugar, honey and most packaged cereals. A simple carbohydrate is a carbohydrate with only a few sugar molecules linked together. Examples would be some type of fruit, like mandarin oranges or apples or table sugar. … a Complex carbohydrate can be made up of thousands of sugar molecules. Examples are bread, pasta, or potatoes. + 15 others found this useful.
Foods containing simple carbohydrates vary in their nutritional value. Fruits that are high in simple carbohydrates contain a significant amount of vitamins and phytochemicals. For example, pomegranate and pomegranate juice contain simple carbohydrates as well as vitamin A, vitamin C and other antioxidants. Carbohydrates are primarily found in plant-based foods, such as grains, fruits and vegetables, which contain many nutrients. However, carbohydrates can also be found in other foods containing added sugars and sweeteners, and these foods have minimal
Many health experts recommend cutting down or eliminating sugar and other simple carbohydrates, and increasing the servings of complex carbohydrates in the diet. Carbohydrates are necessary to your health, because every cell in your body uses them for energy. In fact, your brain can only use carbohydrates for energy. Complex carbs are composed bonds of three or more sugars. These type of carbs are called starches. White rice and white bread are complex carbohydrates and they increase the blood glucose levels much faster than any fruit, which is a simple carb.