A crystal oscillator is an electronic oscillator circuit that uses the mechanical resonance of a vibrating crystal of piezoelectric material to create an electrical signal with a precise frequency. The most common type of piezoelectric resonator used is the quartz crystal, so oscillator circuits incorporating them became known as crystal oscillators, but other piezoelectric materials including polycrystalline ceramics are used in similar circuits.
Please try again later. The basics of oscillators-what they are, what they are used for, and it shows a couple of demo circuits with a sine wave oscillator and a square wave oscillator. Clock generator circuits for digital processors are also briefly mentioned. Click Show more... 
Hobbies include. DIY, car maintenance, computer repairs, tv/video/ radio repairs. Basically an oscillator is a circuit that is used for producing oscillations of current. They are mostly used in radio, to provide a carrier wave for a transmitter, or a local mixing frequency in a superhetrodyne receiver. oscillators are used for tuning the desired frequency from several range of frequency. and they are used for provide the carrier frequency to modulator circuits. and they can … also used for several frequency generation in electronics circuits.
DEFINITION of 'Oscillator'. A technical analysis tool that is banded between two extreme values and built with the results from a trend indicator for discovering short-term overbought or oversold conditions. 
Oscillators are important in many different types of electronic equipment. For example, a quartz watch uses a quartz oscillator to keep track of what time it is. 
A crystal oscillator is an electronic oscillator circuit that uses a piezoelectric resonator, a crystal as its frequency-determining element. The most common type of piezoelectric resonator used is the quartz crystal, so oscillator circuits incorporating them became known as crystal oscillators, but other piezoelectric materials including polycrystalline ceramics are used in similar circuits.
Oscillators are often characterized by the frequency of their output signal: 1  A low-frequency oscillator (LFO) is an electronic oscillator that generates a frequency below ≈20 Hz. 2  This term is typically used in the field of audio synthesizers, to distinguish it from an audio frequency oscillator. The most common form of linear oscillator is an electronic amplifier such as a transistor or op amp connected in a feedback loop with its output fed back into its input through a frequency selective electronic filter to provide positive feedback.
Part of the Electronics glossary: An oscillator is a mechanical or electronic device that works on the principles of oscillation: a periodic fluctuation between two things based on changes in energy. Computers, clocks, watches, radios, and metal detectors are among the many devices that use oscillators. In a computer, a specialized oscillator, called the clock, serves as a sort of pacemaker for the microprocessor. The clock frequency (or clock speed) is usually specified in megahertz (MHz), and is an important factor in determining the rate at which a computer can perform instruction s.
An electronic oscillator is an electronic circuit that produces a periodic, oscillating electronic signal, often a sine wave or a square wave. Oscillators convert direct current (DC) from a power supply to an alternating current signal. They are widely used in many electronic devices. The most common form of linear oscillator is an electronic amplifier such as a transistor or op amp connected in a feedback loop with its output fed back into its input through a frequency selective electronic filter to provide positive feedback.