Divergence insufficiency is generally regarded as a neurological event. While high myopia is not a well-known cause of divergence insufficiency, we frequently encounter divergence insufficiency in high-myopia patients. Thus, the purpose of this study was to report detailed information on such cases and examine mechanisms that might potentially be responsible for this disorder. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Convergence insufficiency or convergence disorder is a sensory and neuromuscular anomaly of the binocular vision system, characterized by a reduced ability of the eyes to turn towards each other, or sustain convergence. 
Thomas AH. PURPOSE: Divergence insufficiency is an unusual form of strabismus with esotropia and diplopia only at distance and single binocular vision at near. This retrospective case series describes the diagnosis and treatment of 7 patients and differentiates this clinical entity from other conditions. CONCLUSIONS: Divergence insufficiency is a distinct clinical entity in otherwise healthy patients, which can be successfully treated by unilateral or bilateral medial rectus recession. [PubMed-indexed for MEDLINE].
strabismus. n. 1. (Pathology) abnormal alignment of one or both eyes, characterized by a turning inwards or outwards from the nose thus preventing parallel vision: caused by paralysis of an eye muscle, etc. Also called: squint. Noun. 1. strabismus-abnormal alignment of one or both eyes. squint. abnormalcy, abnormality-an abnormal physical condition resulting from defective genes or developmental deficiencies.
Definition. Convergence insufficiency occurs when your eyes don't work together while you're trying to focus on a nearby object. When you read or look at a close object, your eyes need to turn inward together (converge) to focus. This gives you binocular vision, enabling you to see a single image. 
divergence insufficiency. Definitions: 1. that condition in which an esophoria or esotropia is more marked for far vision than for near vision. The definition information for divergence insufficiency is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students
strabismus. (strəbĭz`məs) , inability of the eyes to focus together because of an imbalance in the muscles that control eye eye,organ of vision and light perception. In humans the eye is of the camera type, with an iris diaphragm and variable focusing, or accommodation. Paralytic strabismus originates with paralysis of the oculomotor muscles as a result of disease of the central nervous system (infection, hemorrhage). It is characterized by limited mobility of the paralyzed eye, double images, and a different deflection angle of either eye.