Rub the fish with salt and pepper. Let fish marinate for 30 minutes (or overnight in the refrigerator for more intense flavor.). In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt 1 tablespoon butter. Add the okra and bell pepper and cook until just tender, about 5 minutes. Make a slit down the center of the fish 's belly. Stuff the belly of the fish with the okra and peppers and the chopped parsley.
1 Line a roasting pan with aluminum foil. 2  Stuff the cavity of the snapper with the basil leaves and set aside. 3  Heat the peanut oil in a large frypan over high heat until it begins to smoke. 4  Place the snapper in the frypan, and quickly brown on both sides, about 1 minute total. 1 Preheat oven to 190 degrees C. 2  Line a roasting pan with aluminum foil. 3  Stuff the cavity of the snapper with the basil leaves and set aside. 4  Heat the peanut oil in a large frypan over high heat until it begins to smoke. 5
Place the fish on a baking sheet and bake until cooked through, about 10 to 15 minutes. Remove from the oven, and transfer from foil to a serving dish, along with the juices collected in the foil. This recipe was provided by professional chefs and has been scaled down from a bulk recipe provided by a restaurant. In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt 1 tablespoon butter. Add the okra and bell pepper and cook until just tender, about 5 minutes. Make a slit down the center of the fish 's belly. Stuff the belly of the fish with the okra and peppers and the chopped parsley.
Coat an oven-safe baking dish with 1 tbsp. of olive oil or butter. Rinse the red snapper fillets or whole fish inside and out. Pat dry and place in the baking dish. Brush the fish with 1 to 3 tbsp. of olive oil and sprinkle with lemon juice, salt and black pepper, all to taste. Red snapper is a low-fat fish with a firm texture. Use low heat, from 250 to 350 degrees Fahrenheit, to bake red snapper in the oven; alternately, bake or roast red snapper at high heat, from 450 to 500 degrees. There are certain differences in the way the fish cooks with these methods. Roasting creates a crisp crust, while baking preserves the fish's moistur
Open the oven and place the snapper fillets, skin side down, into the hot oil in the baking pan. Listen for the fish to sizzle, which ensures a crisp skin. Close the oven and cook the fish until the flesh is fully opaque and flakes easily with a fork, about seven to 10 minutes. Place the snapper in the lightly oiled roasting pan. Bake in the oven for 10 to 15 minutes per inch of thickness at the thickest part of the fish. The fish is done when the flesh is fully opaque and flakes easily with a fork, or the internal temperature reaches 145 F
Preheat the oven to 190°C (375°F). Rinse the fish and dry with paper towel. Score the flesh of the fish in several places on each side and place in to an ovenproof frying pan or baking dish. Fill the cavity and slits of the fish with the lemon slices, oregano and garlic slices. 
5. Bake the fish. Place the baking dish in the oven and cook the fish for 45 minutes, or until the fish is cooked through. It can be a little tricky to tell whether the fish is ready, but you know it's done with the flesh is no longer translucent. 1  After 40 minutes or so, check the fish to see if it's done. 
1.5 cups white wine. Step 1 - Preheat oven to 180C/350F. Wash and pat dry the fish with paper towels and cut three slashes in the fish on both sides to allow it to cook well. Line a baking tray with at least 1 inch sides with a large sheet of foil or baking paper. 