Echinocyte Morphology. Echinocytes are morphologically altered red blood cells that appear to have numerous, fine, uniform spicules throughout the cell membrane. In mammals, echinocytes have been classified into five main types according to progressive stages in formation and maturation. Several mechanisms of echinocyte formation have been described in the medical literature. Most commonly mentioned is in vitro formation of echinocytes from red blood cell dehydration or expansion of the outer membrane leaflet by amphipathic drugs.
Abstract. Spiculated erythrocytes, termed echinocytes, are frequently found in blood smears from sick horses. Echinocytes have been hypothesized to be rigid cells with the potential to obstruct the microvasculature. Recent studies have associated echinocytosis with disorders causing electrolyte depletion. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Echinocyte (from the Greek word echinos, meaning 'hedgehog' or 'sea urchin'), in human biology and medicine, refers to a form of red blood cell that has an abnormal cell membrane characterized by many small, evenly spaced thorny projections. A more common term for these cells is burr cells. Echinocytes, like acanthocytes, may be found in hyperlipidemia caused by liver dysfunction, but the lipids themselves do not integrate into the membrane. Instead, it is speculated that cell surface receptors on the red blood cells bind with HDL cholesterol which induces the shape change.
Acanthocyte (from the Greek word ἄκανθα acantha, meaning 'thorn'), in human biology and medicine, refers to a form of red blood cell that has a spiked cell membrane, due to abnormal thorny projections. A similar term is spur cells. Acanthocytosis can be seen in: Acute or Chronic Anemia, Hepatitis A,B,C; Hepatorenal syndrome, Hypopitutarism, Malabsorption Syndromes, Malnutrition In malnourishment, such as anorexia nervosa and cystic fibrosis, acanthocytosis remits with resolution of the nutritional deficiency.
Acquired conditions. Echinocytes or Burr cells: Acanthocytes should be distinguished from echinocytes (from the Greek word echinos, which means urchin). These cells appear with multiple small projections that are uniformly distributed on the red cell surface. 
Echinocytes are actually blood components. They are red blood cells (RBCs) or erythrocytes which have undergone the process called crenation. Crenation is the process wherein erythrocytes grow sharp or blunt spicules in the circumference of the RBCs primarily due to the lipid bilayer outer leaflet enlargement.
In this compilation of images from a blood smear of a dog with disseminated intravascular coagulation, acanthocytes are seen (arrows, A and B). Some cells also have more regular membrane projections (arrowheads, A and B). Although these could be variants of acanthocytes, these are echinocytes. 
Acanthocytes should be distinguished from echinocytes (from the Greek word echinos, which means urchin). Echinocytes, or burr cells, appear with multiple small projections that are uniformly distributed on the red cell surface (see the image below). This image (magnified X 2000) demonstrates acanthocytes in an individual with spur cell hemolytic anemia associated with alcoholic cirrhosis. Acanthocytes, unlike echinocytes or burr cells, have fewer spicules. Used with permission from Little, Brown and Company. This image (magnified X 2000) shows echinocytes, or burr cells, a universal feature of uremia. The spicules of acanthocytes vary in length and width and project nonuniformly from the cell surface, while burr cells have regularly spaced, smoothly rounded crenulations