Play media. On these maps, vegetation is pictured as a scale, or index, of greenness. Greenness is based on several factors: the number and type of plants, how leafy they are, and how healthy they are. In places where foliage is dense and plants are growing quickly, the index is high, represented in dark green. Regions where few plants grow have a low vegetation index, shown in tan. In practice, the levels of the alliance and/or association are the most often used, particularly in vegetation mapping, just as the Latin binomial is most often used in discussing particular species in taxonomy and in general communication.
Areas where the satellite did not collect data are gray. Vegetation is assemblages of plant species and the ground cover they provide. It is a general term, without specific reference to particular taxa, life forms, structure, spatial extent, or any other specific botanical or geographic characteristics. In practice, the levels of the alliance and/or association are the most often used, particularly in vegetation mapping, just as the Latin binomial is most often used in discussing particular species in taxonomy and in general communication.
veg·e·ta·tion. n. 1. The process of growth in plants. 2. An abnormal bodily growth or excrescence, especially a clot composed largely of fused blood platelets, fibrin, and sometimes bacteria that is adherent to a diseased heart valve. Because, so to speak, there are no seasons on the moon's surface, and that, consequently, the phenomena of vegetation of which you speak cannot occur.
Medical Definition of VEGETATION. : an abnormal outgrowth upon a body part; specifically: any of the warty excrescences on the valves of the heart that are composed of various tissue elements including fibrin and collagen and that are typical of endocarditis.
Vegetation. An abnormal growth of tissue around a valve, composed of blood platelets, bacteria, and a protein involved in clotting. Mentioned in: Endocarditis. clot, formed of blood, platelets, fibrin and (sometimes) bacteria, adherent to a diseased heart valve, contributing emboli to the circulation. Because, so to speak, there are no seasons on the moon's surface, and that, consequently, the phenomena of vegetation of which you speak cannot occur.
INTRODUCTION. Infective endocarditis arises when an adherent platelet-fibrin nidus becomes secondarily infected and produces vegetations, which in turn may directly damage the endocardial tissue and/or valves. The pathogenesis of infective endocarditis will be reviewed here. 
the total mass of plant associations (phytocoe-noses) inhabiting the earth or individual regions. Vegetation is distinguished from flora as concerned not so much with species diversity as with the number of individuals, the combination thereof, and ecological relations. Vegetation includes all plant species—most of which are autotrophic. The spatial characteristics of vegetation are clearly revealed by geobotanical zonation. Such zonation is important in the evaluation of land by means of its vegetation, and it reflects the main patterns of distribution of vegetation types and plant formations and associations.
Of major importance are the largest subdivisions, or types: tundra, taiga, steppe, savanna, and so on. These vegetation types are classified into groups, or suites: the northern extra-tropical suite, the tropical suite, and the southern extratropical suite. The spatial characteristics of vegetation are clearly revealed by geobotanical zonation. Such zonation is important in the evaluation of land by means of its vegetation, and it reflects the main patterns of distribution of vegetation types and plant formations and associations.
Vegetation is plant life, which can vary from unexplored tropical forests to the cultivated plants of a farm or garden. Plant life is a topic of interest among many scientists and researchers because it plays an important role in the interconnected systems of life on Earth. 