The stratosphere /ˈstraetɵsfɪər/ ˈstrætɵsfɪər is the second major layer Of'earth s, atmosphere just above the, troposphere and below the. Mesosphere it is stratified in, temperature with warmer layers higher up and cooler layers farther. down Diagram of the atmosphere (layers to scale). Distance from the surface to the top of the stratosphere is just under 1% of Earth's radius. This image shows the temperature trend in the Lower Stratosphere as measured by a series of satellite-based instruments between January 1979 and December 2005.
Report. The troposphere is the lowest layer of Earth's atmosphere and site of all weather on Earth. The troposphere is bonded on the top by a layer of air called the tropopause, which separates the troposphere from the stratosphere, and on bottom by the surface of the Earth. 
The orange layer is the troposphere, the white layer is the stratosphere and the blue layer is the mesosphere. (The shuttle is actually orbiting at an altitude of more than 320 km (200 mi), far above all three layers.). Earth atmosphere diagram showing the exosphere and other layers. From Earth's surface to the top of the stratosphere (50km) is just under 1% of Earth's radius. The troposphere is the lowest portion of Earth's atmosphere. It contains approximately 75% of the atmosphere 's mass and 99% of its water vapor and aerosols. The average depth of the troposphere is approximately 17 km (11 mi) in the middle latitude
The stratosphere is the second major atmospheric layer above the troposphere, extending in altitude from about 8 to 30 miles high. No weather occurs in the stratosphere. The statosphere contains over 15% of the total mass of the atmosphere, and is where the ozone layer is located. All weather stops at the top of the troposphere (called the tropopause), and the stratosphere is essentially cloud-free. If you see a tall thunderstorm with an anvil cloud, it is likely that the anvil cloud has reached the bottom of
The Troposphere. The troposphere is the lowest layer of Earth's atmosphere. The troposphere starts at Earth's surface and goes up to a height of 7 to 20 km (4 to 12 miles, or 23,000 to 65,000 feet) above sea level. Most of the mass (about 75-80%) of the atmosphere is in the troposphere. Almost all weather occurs within this layer
The transition boundary between the troposphere and the layer above is called the tropopause. Together the tropopause and the troposphere are known as the lower atmosphere. Stratosphere. The Stratosphere extends from the tropopause up to 31 miles above the Earth's surface. This layer holds 19 percent of the atmosphere's gases but very little water vapor. Temperature increases with height as radiation is increasingly absorbed by oxygen molecules leading to the formation of Ozone.
The lowest layer of the atmosphere is called the troposphere. It ranges in thickness from 8km at the poles to 16km over the equator. The troposphere is bounded above by the tropopause, a boundary marked by stable temperatures. Above the troposphere is the stratosphere. The troposphere is denser than the layers of the atmosphere above it (because of the weight compressing it), and it contains up to 75% of the mass of the atmosphere. It is primarily composed of nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (21%) with only small concentrations of other trace gases.