Circadian rhythms are physical, mental and behavioral changes that follow a roughly 24-hour cycle, responding primarily to light and darkness in an organism's environment. They are found in most living things, including animals, plants and many tiny microbes. The study of circadian rhythms is called chronobiology. Circadian rhythms are produced by natural factors within the body, but they are also affected by signals from the environment. Light is the main cue influencing circadian rhythms, turning on or turning off genes that control an organism's internal clocks.
Diurnal organisms are those that are active mainly during the day. When activity patterns of an organism occur in cycles of about twenty-four hours, the pattern is called a circadian rhythm. Diurnal animals, which sleep during the night and are active during the day, or, conversely, nocturnal animals, which sleep during the day and are active at night, follow a circadian rhythm. Scientists believe that circadian rhythms are controlled by an internal timing mechanism called a biological clock
(2 points). At the equator, the celestial equator runs from cardinal point east to the zenith to cardinal point west. Since a stars diurnal path is parallel to the celestial equator, this star will always be on the celestial equator and hence, transit at your zenith. 
It is caused by the Earth's rotation on its axis, so every star apparently moves on a circle, that is called the diurnal circle. The time for one complete rotation is 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4.09 seconds (1 sidereal day). The first experimental demonstration of this motion was undertaken by Leon Léon. foucault Thus the speed of the diurnal motion of a celestial object is this cosine times 15 °/hr = 15'/min = 15/s, i.e. (compare angular diameter): 1  Up to a Sun or Moon diameter every two minutes.
Often referred to as the body clock, the circadian rhythm is a 24-hour cycle that tells our bodies when to sleep and regulates many other physiological processes. This internal body clock is affected by environmental cues, like sunlight and temperature. 
A. Circadian rhythm disorders are disruptions in a person's circadian rhythm -- a name given to the internal body clock that regulates the (approximately) 24-hour cycle of biological processes. The term circadian comes from Latin words that literally mean around the day. 1 Non 24-Hour Sleep Wake Disorder: This disorder frequently affects those that are totally blind since the circadian clock is set by light-dark cycle over a 24 hour period. 2  In non-24 hour sleep wake disorder the cycle is disturbed.
Diurnal motion is an astronomical term referring to the apparent daily motion of stars around the Earth, or more precisely around the two celestial poles. Thus the speed of the diurnal motion of a celestial object is this cosine times 15 °/hr = 15'/min = 15/s, i.e. (compare angular diameter): 1  Up to a Sun or Moon diameter every two minutes.
Northern cardinals are native to the Nearctic region. They are found throughout eastern and central North America from southern Canada into parts of Mexico and Central America. They have also been introduced to California, Hawaii and Bermuda. 1 years. The female northern cardinal builds the nest, incubates the eggs for 11 to 13 days, and broods the altricial chicks for the first 2 days or so. During incubation, the male brings food to the incubating female. Both parents feed the nestlings a diet of insects and remove fecal sacs from the nest.
1 years. The female northern cardinal builds the nest and incubates the eggs. When the chicks hatch they have no feathers or down, so the female broods them to protect them and keep them warm for at least 2 days. Both parents feed the chicks a diet of insects. When a predator comes near a cardinal nest, both male and female northern cardinals give an alarm call that is a short, chipping note. They also fly toward the predator to try to scare it away. Northern cardinals do not mob predators like other songbirds do.