Allsports Physiotherapy and Sports Medicine Clinics are founded on a multidisciplinary approach to the treatment and rehabilitation of injury management and prevention. Our primary aim is to provide a high quality service which focuses on individualised physiotherapy care in an integrated sports medicine environment. To this end, our clinics represent purpose built centres which provide easy access to a diverse range of allied health services aimed at caring for the whole person. On site provision of podiatry, massage, nutrition and pilates services allow our therapists to co-ordinate rehabilitation programs with highly qualified health care professionals so that patient recovery is maximised.
And it’s off to a good start. “We are booked out for the opening week already,” Dr Chesworth said. Appointments cost $15 for concession card holders and $25 for non-concession card holders. For more information or to make an appointment contact the University of Canberra Faculty of Health Clinic on (02) 6201 5843. 
Average appointment costs are £50 - £60. The majority of people attending physiotherapy can then be discharged following 4 - 5 treatment sessions with a programme of activity and exercises to follow. Individual discounts may be available based on, for example, your gym membership status. If you have medical insurance then you will need to contact your provider prior to your first appointment to ensure your policy covers the cost of treatment. If you wish to cancel or change your appointment with less than one full working day’s notice (excluding weekends) an administration fee will be charged.
Full-size table. Table 2 shows the estimated outpatient physiotherapy revenue from 2006 to 2008. The total estimated OPR from 2006 to 2008 was $9300 (if per treatment schedule cost is $10). The annual estimated OPRs were $3290, $2710, and $3300 for 2006, 2007, and 2008, respectively. 
Private physiotherapists may be costly; commonly a half hour appointment will cost between £30 and £60 depending on the nature of a patient’s condition and subsequent treatment. Physiotherapy provided by the National Health Service is free of charge to British citizens.
For example, if you live within 8 miles of our therapist, a treatment session may cost you £50 per-person. If 2 additional family members would also like to be treated during this visit, the cost may be reduced down to £35-40 per-person. Paul is a Chartered Physiotherapist and Sports Therapist. After graduating with a first class degree with honours from The University of Chichester in Sports Therapy, he went on to achieve a distinction in a Masters of Science degree in Physiotherapy at the University of Southampton.
1 For example, Baudendistel Physical Therapy charges $100 for an initial evaluation and $75 for each one-hour physical therapy session. 2  Kathe Wallace Physical Therapy in Washington charges $165-$205 for a one-hour initial evaluation, $112 for appointments less than 45 minutes and $150 for a session of 50 to 55 minutes. 1 Many providers offer discounted packages. 2  For example, Joint Ventures Physical Therapy and Fitness in Massachusetts charges $70 for a half-hour session and $105 for an hour-long session, but offers packages that take $10 off the cost of each session.
If necessary, your physio will also work closely with other health care practitioners to offer you the best possible outcome. Your first appointment may take up to one hour and cost anything from $65 to $120. Follow-up appointments are usually shorter (30-45 minutes) and cost from $55-$95. If you have private health insurance you may be eligible for a rebate. What to Expect from a Physiotherapy Consultation. Tweet. Print Print. If an aching back, stiff neck or wonky knee is stopping you from doing the things you love a visit to a physiotherapist might help.
Nuffield Health is a recognised provider for all major private medical insurers and your treatment may be funded by your PMI policy. If you have medical insurance then you will need to contact your provider prior to your first appointment to ensure your policy covers the cost of treatment. If you wish to cancel or change your appointment with less than one full working day’s notice (excluding weekends) an administration fee will be charged.
Treatment fees. If you would like to book an appointment, check availability or have any questions regarding our services, please call 07843 166 706. We do our best to answer straight away however if we do not, please leave your name and number and we will aim to contact you within a couple of hours. Paul is a Chartered Physiotherapist and Sports Therapist. After graduating with a first class degree with honours from The University of Chichester in Sports Therapy, he went on to achieve a distinction in a Masters of Science degree in Physiotherapy at the University of Southampton.