1 Stress to your child how important it is to maintain healthy teeth and gums and that the dentist is a friendly doctor whose job it is to help do this. 2  Don't promise a reward for going to the dentist. Any anxiety displayed by parents will be picked up by the child. To help the dental visit go more smoothly: 1  Tell your child about the visits but limit the amount of details given. 2  Answer any questions with simple, to-the-point answers.
1 Don't tell your child about an unpleasant dental experience that you've had. 2  Stress to your child how important it is to maintain healthy teeth and gums and that the dentist is a friendly doctor whose job it is to help do this. 3  Don't promise a reward for going to the dentist. Any anxiety displayed by parents will be picked up by the child. To help the dental visit go more smoothly: 1  Tell your child about the visits but limit the amount of details given. 2  Answer any questions with simple, to-the-point answers.
A Intermountain Healthcare answered. To help relieve your child's pain after a dental procedure, it is important to offer comfort and listen to your child's concerns. 
1 Don't tell your child about an unpleasant dental experience that you've had. 2  Stress to your child how important it is to maintain healthy teeth and gums and that the dentist is a friendly doctor whose job it is to help do this. 3  Don't promise a reward for going to the dentist. Parents' Role in the Dental Visit. To help the dental visit go more smoothly: 1  Tell your child about the visits but limit the amount of details given. 2  Answer any questions with simple, to-the-point answers. 3  Let the dentist answer more complex or detailed questions.
1 Avoid the use of words like “hurt” or “shot” or “painful.”. 2  Don't tell your child about an unpleasant dental experience that you've had. 3  Stress to your child how important it is to maintain healthy teeth and gums and that the dentist is a friendly doctor whose job it is to help do this. Parents' Role in the Dental Visit. To help the dental visit go more smoothly: 1  Tell your child about the visits but limit the amount of details given. 2  Answer any questions with simple, to-the-point answers. 3  Let the dentist answer more complex or detailed questions.
As a part of your child’s cancer treatment, your child may have to undergo medical procedures that are painful. Children respond to painful procedures in many different ways. As a parent, it can be very difficult to watch your child when they are scared and/or in pain. Here, we talk about how to share information with your child to prepare for upcoming medical procedures, about pain, and providing some tips for helping your child cope. While we cannot expect to completely eliminate pain in most situations, there are some basic steps you and your child can take to ease pain.
In this article. Fear of pain is the main reason people avoid seeing the dentist. The good news is that there is a wide array of medications and techniques -- used alone or in combination -- that can reduce or eliminate pain and control anxiety during most procedures. Medications at the Dentist's Office. 1 General anesthesia. 2  With this technique, the patient is put to sleep for the duration of the procedure. 3  Patients requiring general anesthesia can be treated in the dentist's office, but more likely are treated in a hospital setting.
Children respond to pain in different ways, and you may need to try a few different things before you find something that works for your child. Remember, you are the expert when it comes to recognizing that your child is in pain and identifying things that help soothe your child. Preparing for a Procedure. Here, we talk about how to share information with your child to prepare for upcoming medical procedures, about pain, and providing some tips for helping your child cope. While we cannot expect to completely eliminate pain in most situations, there are some basic steps you and your child can take to ease pain.
If your dentist does not take steps to ease your child's fears, consider finding another dentist. It is important that your child has a positive experience at the dentist during their early years so that he or she does not develop an ongoing fear of oral health care providers. Parents' Role in the Dental Visit. To help the dental visit go more smoothly: 1  Tell your child about the visits but limit the amount of details given. 2  Answer any questions with simple, to-the-point answers. 3  Let the dentist answer more complex or detailed questions.