Report Abuse. A pinched nerve doesn't really heal. It is the muscle spasm or injury that causes the pinched nerve. Whiplash can take up to 6 months but normal muscle strain induced nerve pain should go away in a few days to week, up to a month or so if severe and you don't baby it... So, be a wussie and baby it, use heat and cold alternating and take it easy
The longer you delay treatment, the longer it will take for the situation to be corrected. Sciatica will continue to persist as long as the sciatic nerve remains pinched. And finally, even when the symptoms do disappear, the pinched nerve can still take another six months to fully heal. How long sciatica remains a problem for you will depend on how long it takes you to rebuild the support structure of your back. 
Nerves will grow back, but often it takes a long time; it depends on the amount of damage you have to that area. When I injured my ankle I had severe nerve damage along with a hairline fracture and a life long tendon injury, and it took about 2 to 3 months for my nerve damage to heal. Best Answer: It really depends upon the extent of damage to the area and if the lesion that is causing the pinching is resolved. A person can have a protruding disc that pinches the nerve in the spine and the pinch can remain there for years if nothing is done about it. There can be spontaneous remission or never.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Nerve and disc pain can take months to heal properly. It definitely sounds like you have a pinched nerve as you have pain radiating down your arm. Surgery on the neck vertebrae is usually a last resort because of the risks. Physiotherapy can help you immensely with the pain and improve function. 
1 The amount of time it takes for a pinched nerve to completely heal depends on the amount of damage done to the nerve. 2  Because the nerve heals from the top down, it could take from weeks to months to completely heal. 3  If you suffer from back pain, see an osteopath or chiropractor who does spinal manipulation. Pinched nerves occur when surrounding tissues such as bone, cartilage, tendons, or muscles get trapped or press abnormally against a nerve. Whether you do it at home by yourself or with the help of a doctor, knowing how to treat a pinched nerve will help you heal yourself and deal with the pain.
Get help from a doctor now ›. 6-8 weeks: It depend on many factors but the fracture pelvis take about 6- 8 weeks to heal. As far as pinched nerve also it depend on the reason some pinched nerves need surgery and other need a lot of therapy and treatment. Get help from a doctor now ›. Weeks to Months: Generally most people can get relief from sciatic pain doing the conservative care within 3-6 weeks. If it persists after that, it can take up to 6 months to heal by itself. You may still be a candidate for epidural steroid injections that may help relieve the pain while your body heals itself
Pinched nerves tend to heal slowly. It's just a fact of life and we all have to live with it. How long it takes will depend on how much damage was done when the nerve was pinched. Be prepared for it to take several weeks or even months to heal. Usually a pinched nerve does not mean that you will have a loss of function or that you need to worry about such things as paralysis. It is also a fact of life that the body heals itself. There is nothing you, your doctor, your physical therapist or other back pain specialist can do to heal a pinched nerve. All treatment for pinched nerves is limited solely to the relief of pain.
The nerves heal from the top down, and depending on how much damage is done at the time the nerve becomes impinged (pinched), it may take weeks to months for the nerve to fully to heal. Treatment of neural impingement is directed at relieving the pain and then allowing the nerve to heal on its own. Symptoms may include pain that affects the area around the nerve, weakness, numbness and a tingling sensation. Areas of the body that are commonly affected by pinched nerves include the wrist, elbow, neck, back, and ankle.