VMware, Inc. is a software company, well known in the field of system virtualization and cloud computing. VMware's software allows users to create multiple virtual environments, or virtual computer systems, on a single computer or server. Essentially, one computer or server could be used to host, or manage, many virtual computer systems, sometimes as many as one hundred or more. In April 2011, VMware entered the cloud computing market by releasing Cloud Foundry, an open source platform-as-a-service software system.
Use software such as VMware ESX Server to transform or virtualize the hardware resources of an x86-based computer-including the CPU, RAM, hard disk and network controller-to create a fully functional virtual machine that can run its own operating system and applications just like a real computer. 
VMware ESXi (formerly ESX) is an enterprise-class, type-1 hypervisor developed by VMware for deploying and serving virtual computers. As a type-1 hypervisor, ESXi is not a software application that one installs in an operating system; instead, it includes and integrates vital OS components, such as a kernel. After version 4.1, VMware renamed ESX to ESXi.
They can create virtual servers using VMware's software to save time and money. VMware released it's first software program, called VMware Workstation, in May 1999. In 2001, they entered the server market by releasing VMware GSX Server and VMware ESX Server. In April 2011, VMware entered the cloud computing market by releasing Cloud Foundry, an open source platform-as-a-service software system.
This leaves most machines vastly underutilized. VMware virtualization lets you run multiple virtual machines on a single physical machine, with each virtual machine sharing the resources of that one physical computer across multiple environments. Different virtual machines can run different operating systems and multiple applications on the same physical computer. 
NEC's thin client system, Virtual PC Center, adopts virtualization technology infrastructure provided by VMware. The virtualization technology is used to virtualize each PC onto a centralized server. Original management technology delivers both an efficient use of resources and fault-resistant characteristics. The Virtual PC Center offers a total solution, from PC use through to management and operation.
Start a virtual machine. To start a virtual machine, click the VM menu and select the virtual machine that you want to turn on. You can choose to start the virtual machine normally, or boot directly to the virtual BIOS. Download the VMware software. You can download the VMware installer from the Download Center on the VMware website. Select the newest version and click the link for the installer. You will need to login with your VMware username.
VMware software provides a completely virtualized set of hardware to the guest operating system. VMware software virtualizes the hardware for a video adapter, a network adapter, and hard disk adapters. The host provides pass-through drivers for guest USB, serial, and parallel devices. On July 8, 2008, VMware co-founder, president and CEO Diane Greene, was unexpectedly fired by the VMware Board of Directors and replaced by Paul Maritz, a retired 14-year Microsoft veteran who was heading EMC's cloud computing business unit.
A virtual machine is a software computer that, like a physical computer, runs an operating system and applications. The virtual machine is comprised of a set of specification and configuration files and is backed by the physical resources of a host. Every virtual machine has virtual devices that provide the same functionality as physical hardware and have additional benefits in terms of portability, manageability, and security. You configure virtual machine settings through the vSphere Web Client or the vSphere Client. You do not need to touch the key files. A virtual machine can have more files if one or more snapshots exist or if you add Raw Device Mappings (RDMs).
VMware virtualization is based on the ESX/ESXi bare metal hypervisor, supporting virtual machines. The term VMware is often used in reference to specific VMware Inc. products such as VMware Workstation, VMware View, VMware Horizon Application Manager and VMware vCloud Director. VMware is a virtualization and cloud computing software provider for x86 -compatible computers. VMware Inc. is a subsidiary of EMC Corporation and has its headquarters in Palo Alto, California.