Christopher is the English version of a Europe-wide name derived from the Greek name χριστόφορος (Christoforos). Christóforos the constituent parts ARE (χριστός), . Christos  christós  Christ , or anointed (and), φέρειν: ferein Férein-bear. the christ bearer It is related to the names Chris meaning Anointed and Christian meaning follower of Christ or little Christ (all from Greek.). As a given, or first name, Christopher has been in use since the 10th century.
Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the boy name Christopher and corresponding names. Prominent related forms of Christopher (#30 in 2014) rated in the Top 1000 are Chris (#514 in 2014) , Kristopher (#591) , Kristofer, Kristoffer, Kris, Cristobal, Christ, Christoffer, Cris and Cristofer. Christopher /chri-sto-pher/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KRIS-toh-fer. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Christopher is bearing Christ. From Khristophoros. Popular among early Christians. The legend of Saint Christopher as the patron saint of travelers grew from the story of a giant who made his living carrying people across a riv
[ 3 syll. (c)hris-top-her, ch-ristoph-er ] The baby boy name Christopher is pronounced as KR IH STaaF-er- †. Christopher is used mostly in English and it is of Old Greek origin. Christopher is of the meaning bearing Christ. 
From the Late Greek name χριστοφορος (Christophoros) meaning bearing CHRIST , derived from χριστος (Christos) combined with φερω (phero) to bear, to carry. Early Christians used it as a metaphorical name, expressing that they carried Christ in their hearts. 
Meaning of Christopher. English name. In English, the name Christopher means-He who holds Christ in his heart. Famous Bearers: actors Christopher Plummer and Christopher Walken; explorer Christopher Columbus.. Other origins for the name Christopher include-English, Biblical.The name Christopher is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-He who holds Christ in his heart. Famous Bearers: actors Christopher Plummer and Christopher Walken; explorer Christopher Columbus
Baby names meanings search results: The name Christopher is a baby boy name. The name Christopher comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Christopher is: He who holds Christ in his heart. Famous Bearers: actors Christopher Plummer and Christopher Walken; explorer Christopher Columbus.