White-tailed deer have different colors depending on the season and their location. Usually they have greyish fur in winter and reddish-brown fur in summer. They have white patches of fur on their face and lower legs. The tail is brownish-red above and white below. White-tailed deer often live in either matriarchal social groups or in male groups made up of a dominant male and occasionally first-year males (Smith, 1991). Females and their fawns may graze together in herds of up to hundreds of individuals.
The White-Tailed Deer Wisconsin State Animal Able to leap tall fences in a single bound, the white-tailed deer is an animal of incredible beauty and power. The white-tailed deer is one of Wisconsin's official wildlife animals and North America's most abundant big-game animal. 
White tailed deer are polygamous animals, which means they have more than one mate in their lives. Males will even have more than one mate within a single mating period. A female deer is generally alone through most of the year, except when accompanied by her fawns. 
White tailed deer are native to 17 different countries, ranging from Canada, throughout the United States and Mexico, down to the South American country of Peru. This species has also been introduced in the Czech Republic, Finland, New Zealand, and Slovakia. Deer have been seen throughout the United States. However, they are not found in Alaska, Hawaii, or desert areas such as some areas of the southwestern states like Nevada and New Mexico. The habitat is not suitable for their survival in these places.
Notably high populations of white-tailed deer occur in the Edwards Plateau of Central Texas. Michigan, Minnesota, Iowa, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, Illinois, Wisconsin, Maryland, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, and Indiana also boast high deer densities. Central and South America have a complex number of white-tailed deer subspecies that range from Guatemala as far south as Peru. This list of subspecies of deer is more exhaustive than the list of North American subspecies, and the number of subspecies is also questionable.
White-tailed deer are native to both the Nearctic and Neotropical regions. They inhabit most of southern Canada and all of the mainland United States except portions of the west central states to the California coast. Their range extends throughout Central America to Bolivia. White-tailed deer often live in either matriarchal social groups or in male groups made up of a dominant male and occasionally first-year males (Smith, 1991). Females and their fawns may graze together in herds of up to hundreds of individuals.
What a white tailed deer eats depends on the environment in which it lives. Deer are mainly herbivores, eating various twigs, shrubs, fruits, and nuts. They eat up to three times a day when food is available. 1 On this site, kids may learn about the white tailed deer and see close up pictures of the white tailed deer. 2  Some things that children could learn from this page are where deer live, what they eat, and a few other characteristics about deer.
The fur of the white-tailed deer is a grayish color in the winter then more red comes out during the summer. It has a band of white fur behind its nose, in circles around the eyes, and inside the ears. More white fur goes down the throat, on the upper insides of the legs and under the tail. White-tailed deer live to be about 10 years, but some have lived as long as 20 years in captivity. The white-tailed deer is usually a solitary animal, but females and fawns will band together at times.
Species Code: ODVI. What they look like: White-tailed deer are the smallest members of the North American deer family. Adult white-tail deer have reddish-brown coats in summer. The color fades to a duller grayish-brown in winter. Male deer, called bucks, are easily distinguished in the summer and fall by their large set of antlers. White-tailed refers to the white underside of the deer's tail, which it displays and wags when it senses danger. These large mammals weigh 110 to 300 lbs (50 to 136 kg). White-tailed ears are considerably smaller than Mule Deer ears. Where they live:
White-tailed Deer are reddish-brown with a white belly and tail in Summer. In Winter, the reddish-brown changes to grayish-brown. Male deer, called bucks, have antlers, up to three feet across, on their heads. White-tailed Deer are mostly nocturnal, but can be seen any time of day. They do most of their feeding early in the morning or when the sun is going down. Copyright, Roberta Stacy, http://homepage.mac.com/rstacy/ Nearctica.com White-tailed Deer form small groups for much of the year.