A few possible mechanisms have been studied but none have been proven definitively. Mitochondrial damage in the Fas pathway of apoptosis is mediated by the caspase-8 cleavage of Bid (Li et al., 1998; Esposti, 2002). This is one example of the “cross-talk” between the death-receptor (extrinsic) pathway and the mitochondrial (intrinsic) pathway (Igney and Krammer, 2002). Finally, apoptosis is a coordinated and often energy-dependent process that involves the activation of a group of cysteine proteases called “caspases” and a complex cascade of events that link the initiating stimuli to the final demise of the cell.
The FAS gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in signaling. Three FAS proteins group together to form a structure called a trimer, which then interacts with other molecules to perform its signaling function. This signaling initiates a process called a caspase cascade. The FAS gene belongs to a family of genes called CD (CD molecules). It also belongs to a family of genes called TNFRSF (tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily).
Tumor cells can acquire resistance to apoptosis by the expression of anti-apoptotic proteins such as Bcl-2 or by the down-regulation or mutation of pro-apoptotic proteins such as Bax. The expression of both Bcl-2 and Bax is regulated by the p53 tumor suppressor gene (Miyashita, 1994). Finally, apoptosis is a coordinated and often energy-dependent process that involves the activation of a group of cysteine proteases called “caspases” and a complex cascade of events that link the initiating stimuli to the final demise of the cell.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The FAS receptor (FasR), also known as apoptosis antigen 1 (APO-1 or APT), cluster of differentiation 95 (CD95) or tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 6 (TNFRSF6) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the TNFRSF6 gene. Previous reports have identified as many as eight splice variants, which are translated into seven isoforms of the protein. Apoptosis-inducing Fas receptor is dubbed isoform 1 and is a type 1 transmembrane protein. Many of the other isoforms are rare haplotypes that are usually associated with a state of disease.
Fas ligand (FasL or CD95 L) is a type-II transmembrane protein that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family. Receptors [edit]. 1  FasR: The Fas receptor (FasR), or CD95, is the most intensely studied member of the death receptor family. 2  DcR3: Decoy receptor 3 (DcR3) is a recently discovered decoy receptor of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily that binds to FasL, LIGHT, and TL1A.
Structure [edit]. Fas ligand or FasL is a homotrimeric type II transmembrane protein expressed on cytotoxic T lymphocytes. It signals through trimerization of FasR, which spans the membrane of the target cell. This trimerization usually leads to apoptosis, or cell death. Soluble Fas ligand is generated by cleaving membrane-bound FasL at a conserved cleavage site by the external matrix metalloproteinase MMP-7. Receptors [edit]. 1  FasR: The Fas receptor (FasR), or CD95, is the most intensely studied member of the death receptor family. 2  DcR3: Decoy receptor 3 (DcR3) is a recently discovered decoy receptor of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily that binds to FasL, LIGHT, and TL1A.
Once caspase-8 is activated, the execution phase of apoptosis is triggered. Death receptor-mediated apoptosis can be inhibited by a protein called c-FLIP which will bind to FADD and caspase-8, rendering them ineffective (Kataoka et al., 1998; Scaffidi, 1999). Finally, apoptosis is a coordinated and often energy-dependent process that involves the activation of a group of cysteine proteases called “caspases” and a complex cascade of events that link the initiating stimuli to the final demise of the cell.
The Fas receptor is a death receptor on the surface of cells that leads to programmed cell death (apoptosis). It is one of two apoptosis pathways, the other being the mitochondrial pathway. FasR is located on chromosome 10 in humans and 19 in mice. Previous reports have identified as many as eight splice variants, which are translated into seven isoforms of the protein. Apoptosis-inducing Fas receptor is dubbed isoform 1 and is a type 1 transmembrane protein. Many of the other isoforms are rare haplotypes that are usually associated with a state of disease.