Interestingly though, the mobile home itself is also a plug-in hybrid, and can be charged on its own supercharger, which is powered by Tesla’s new house battery. Priced at just $120,000, the Tesla Model H comfortably houses a family of four (or more, if your children are small and willing to share a bed). Musk made a wisecrack on Twitter that current Model S owners may be eligible for a discount on the Model H, but we’re not sure if it was a joke or a way to boost sales in New Jersey.
The paydirt car for Tesla, a stylish mass-produced 200-mile EV. Tesla would have to defy all expectations to achieve success on the Model 3, while avoiding all the potential pitfalls—not only for the 200-mile $35,000 Model 3, but a massive new battery factory, and the Model X that comes first. In other words, Tesla could offer a 200-mile version of the car with minimal features, to make good on its cost-range promises, while selling the vast majority of Model 3 cars at higher price points (and profit margins).
More importantly, the Model S is way more affordable than the company’s $109,000 Tesla Roadster. The current price target for the Tesla Model S is $57,900 (minus a $7,500 federal tax credit)—still not in range for most mainstream buyers but moving in the right direction. The driving range will be approximately 160 miles, with a full recharge time of about five hours. The battery will have a useful life between five and seven years, after which a new battery pack will cost “well under $5,000,” according to Elon Musk, the company’s chief executive.
Tesla Cars. Tesla is a brand of all electric vehicles founded in 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning in San Carlos, California. The company's first product was the Tesla Roadster, which has been joined by the Model S sedan. Tesla Motor Company, maker of the Model S electric car, is recalling 29,222 wall charger adapters following reports of overheating in owners' garages.
2013 Tesla Model S and 2014 BMW i3, Hudson Valley, NY, Nov 2014. Driving an all-electric car is so qualitatively different from the off-and-on-engine experience of those first-generation plug-in hybrids that it's a completely new kind of experience.
Enlarge Photo. 2015 Tesla Model S 70D in new Ocean Blue color. Two years ago, the launch of the Porsche Panamera S E-Hybrid produced the first ostensible large luxury plug-in sedan competitor to the Tesla Model S electric car. Driving an all-electric car is so qualitatively different from the off-and-on-engine experience of those first-generation plug-in hybrids that it's a completely new kind of experience.
For 2013, the Model S now has the ability to receive over the air software updates, providing buyers with new features and services as they become available. View TeslaModel S vehicles for sale near you. About Tesla Model S. Designed from the start as an EV, the 2015 Tesla Model S is a roomy 5-passenger electric sedan boasting excellent cargo room with advantages in range and performance that its rivals can't touch. 
The Porsche is a plug-in hybrid, with an electric range of 15 or 16 miles; the Tesla is all-electric, with ranges of 208 to 275 miles. Driving an all-electric car is so qualitatively different from the off-and-on-engine experience of those first-generation plug-in hybrids that it's a completely new kind of experience.
Tesla is a brand of all electric vehicles founded in 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning in San Carlos, California. Tesla Motor Company, maker of the Model S electric car, is recalling 29,222 wall charger adapters following reports of overheating in owners' garages.
Tesla completed the prototype of the motorhome for a spring unveil, and we’re eagerly awaiting an update on when pre-orders will begin. Musk made a wisecrack on Twitter that current Model S owners may be eligible for a discount on the Model H, but we’re not sure if it was a joke or a way to boost sales in New Jersey.