This article is about stable isotope ratios. For the general category of stable nuclides, see Stable nuclide. The term stable isotope has a similar meaning to stable nuclide, but is preferably used when speaking of nuclides of a specific element. 
Isotope. One member of a (chemical-element) family of atomic species which has two or more nuclides with the same number of protons (Z) but a different number of neutrons (N). Because the atomic mass is determined by the sum of the number of protons and neutrons contained in the nucleus, isotopes differ in mass. (ī`sətōp) , in chemistry and physics, one of two or more atoms having the same atomic number but differing in atomic weight atomic weight,mean (weighted average) of the masses of all the naturally occurring isotopes of a chemical element, as contrasted with atomic mass, which is the mass of any individual isotope.
isotope. One member of a family of chemical elements that has the same chemical properties (the same atomic number) but differs in mass. Isotopes have the same number of protons and electrons, but a different number of neutrons. The mass is determined by the total number of nucleons (neutrons and protons). (ī`sətōp) , in chemistry and physics, one of two or more atoms having the same atomic number but differing in atomic weight atomic weight,mean (weighted average) of the masses of all the naturally occurring isotopes of a chemical element, as contrasted with atomic mass, which is the mass of any individual isotope.
isotope. n. 1. (Chemistry) one of two or more atoms with the same atomic number that contain different numbers of neutrons. [C20: from iso- + Greek topos place]. isotope-one of two or more atoms with the same atomic number but with different numbers of neutrons. atom - (physics and chemistry) the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element.
isotope. a chemical element having the same atomic number as another (i.e. the same number of nuclear protons), but having a different atomic mass (i.e. a different number of nuclear neutrons). radioactive isotope. one having an unstable nucleus and which emits characteristic radiation during its decay to a stable form. 
stable isotope. (nuclear physics). An isotope which does not spontaneously undergo radioactive decay. 1  Facebook. 
Magnetic sector mass spectrometer used in isotope ratio analysis, through thermal ionization. Isotope analysis is the identification of isotopic signature, the distribution of certain stable isotopes and chemical elements within chemical compounds. 
Global Stable Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer Industry Report 2014 by PR Newswire Europe. 27, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Research and Markets has announced the addition of the Global. Ratio Mass Spectrometer Industry Report 2014 report to their offering. 