Adenovirus infections most commonly cause illness of the respiratory system; however, depending on the infecting serotype, they may also cause various other illnesses and presentations. Pharyngoconjunctival fever is a specific presentation of adenovirus infection, manifested as: 1  high fever that lasts 4–5 days. 2  pharyngitis (sore throat). 3  conjunctivitis (inflamed eyes, usually without pus formation like pink eye). 4  enlargement of the lymph nodes of the neck.
Adenoviruses are a group of viruses that typically cause respiratory illnesses, such as a common cold, conjunctivitis (an infection in the eye that is sometimes called pink eye), croup, bronchiolitis, or pneumonia. In children, adenoviruses usually cause infections in the respiratory tract and intestinal tract. The following are the most common ways adenoviruses are spread from person to person: Respiratory infections. Fluid from the respiratory tract (nose, mouth, throat, and mouth) may contain the virus. Respiratory infections are spread when someone with the virus coughs or sneezes on another person.
Along with Bordetella bronchiseptica (a bacterium) and parainfluenza (a virus), canine adenovirus type 2 (CAV-2) is one of the reasons dogs get kennel cough, which can cause coughing, fever, and a runny nose. A vaccine against CAV-2 is readily available and generally a part of a combination vaccine for other diseases. Canine adenovirus type 2 causes respiratory disease in dogs and is one of the infectious agents commonly associated with canine infectious tracheobronchitis, which is also known as kennel cough. Canine infectious tracheobronchitis is usually spread from dog to dog through coughing.
Adenoviruses are a family of viruses. These may cause infections in humans as well as animals. The most common infections caused by adenoviruses are respiratory tract infections. Adenovirus often infects the airways and the intestinal tract. An infection usually manifests with symptoms similar to a common cold. There is a sore throat, runny nose and eyes, sneezing, headaches, cough and fever. In some persons infection with adenovirus may also cause croup or bronchitis. Some infections may also lead to conjunctivitis (pink-eye), skin rash, diarrhea and bladder infections.
The virus is capable of infecting multiple organ systems; however, most infections are asymptomatic. Adenovirus is often cultured from the pharynx and stool of asymptomatic children, and most adults have measurable titers of anti-adenovirus antibodies, implying prior infection. 
Canine adenovirus type 2 (CAV-2) is related to the hepatitis virus, canine adenovirus type 1 (CAV-1). CAV-2 is used in vaccines to provide protection against canine infectious hepatitis. CAV-2 is also one of the causes of infectious tracheobronchitis, also known as canine cough. 1. 
Two types of canine adenoviruses are well known, type 1 and 2. Type 1 causes infectious canine hepatitis, a potentially fatal disease involving vasculitis and hepatitis. Type 1 infection can also cause respiratory and eye infections. Canine adenovirus 2 (CAdV-2) is one of the potential causes of kennel cough. Adenoviruses (members of the family Adenoviridae) are medium-sized (90–100 nm), nonenveloped (without an outer lipid bilayer) viruses with an icosahedral nucleocapsid containing a double stranded DNA genome. Their name derives from their initial isolation from human adenoids in 1953.
Apart from respiratory involvement, illnesses and presentations of adenovirus include gastroenteritis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, and rash illness. Symptoms of respiratory illness caused by adenovirus infection range from the common cold syndrome to pneumonia, croup, and bronchitis. Pharyngoconjunctival fever is a specific presentation of adenovirus infection, manifested as: 1  high fever that lasts 4–5 days. 2  pharyngitis (sore throat). 3  conjunctivitis (inflamed eyes, usually without pus formation like pink eye). 4  enlargement of the lymph nodes of the neck.