Costa Rica, officially called the Republic of Costa Rica, is located on the Central American isthmus between Nicaragua and Panama. Because it is on an isthmus, Costa Rica also has coastlines along the Pacific Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico. The country features numerous rainforests and a plethora of flora and fauna which make it a popular destination for tourism and ecotourism. The coastal lowlands of Costa Rica are incredibly biodiverse and feature many different types of plants and wildlife. Both coasts feature mangrove swamps and the Gulf of Mexico side is heavily forested with tropical rainforests.
5. This was the largest margin ever recorded for a free election in Costa Rica. Previously, Costa Rica’s president was Laura Chinchilla, Costa Rica’s first female president and sixth female elected for president of a Latin American country. 
4) There are 800 miles of coastline in Costa Rica between the Pacific and Caribbean coasts. 5) Costa Rica is divided into seven provinces: San Jose, Alajuela, Heredia, Cartago, Guanacaste, Puntarenas and Limon. 6) There are more than 121 volcanic formations in Costa Rica, and seven of them are active.
Costa Rica also borders Nicaragua to the north (309 km or 192 mi of border) and Panama to the south-southeast (330 km or 210 mi of border). In total, Costa Rica comprises 51,100 square kilometres (19,700 sq mi) plus 589 square kilometres (227 sq mi) of territorial waters. 
In 1821, Costa Rica then joined other Spanish colonies in the region and made a declaration of independence from Spain. Shortly thereafter, the newly independent Costa Rica and other former colonies formed a Central American Federation. The coastal lowlands of Costa Rica are incredibly biodiverse and feature many different types of plants and wildlife. Both coasts feature mangrove swamps and the Gulf of Mexico side is heavily forested with tropical rainforests.
This Central American country lies between Nicaragua to the north and Panama to the south. Its area slightly exceeds that of Vermont and New Hampshire combined. It has a narrow Pacific coastal region. Cocos Island (10 sq mi; 26 sq km), about 300 mi (483 km) off the Pacific Coast, is under Costa Rican sovereignty.
Learn about the Central American Country of Costa Rica. The Costa Rica flag has horizontal bands of blue (top), white, red (double width), white, and blue; the coat of arms in a white disk on the hoist-side in red band; two ribbons above the coat of arms say AMERICA CENTRAL and REPUBLICA COSTA RICA. The coastal lowlands of Costa Rica are incredibly biodiverse and feature many different types of plants and wildlife. Both coasts feature mangrove swamps and the Gulf of Mexico side is heavily forested with tropical rainforests.
This mountainous country is located between the Caribbean Sea to the East and the Pacific Ocean to the West. Positioned on the Central American Isthmus 10˚ North of the Equator and 84˚ West of the Prime Meridian. It borders Nicaragua to the north and Panama to the south and is therefore situated in the midst of the Tropics. Costa Rica has close to 1,300 km (800 mi) of coastline. The Pacific Coastline with more of a mountainous terrain makes up roughly 80% of the total coastline. Over half the population resides in the Central Valley and is home to four out of the six most populated cities: Alajuela, Cartago, Heredia, and San Jose. Costa Rica is also home to several islands such as: Isla del Coco. Calero Island (largest). Isla del Cano.
AREA: 19,729 square miles (51,100 square kilometers). Costa Rican Flag. Map of Costa Rica. GEOGRAPHY. Costa Rica is small country in Central America. It is bordered by Nicaragua to the north and Panama to the south. The Caribbean Sea is to the east and the Pacific Ocean is to the west. Costa Rica is slightly smaller than the state of West Virginia.
It borders both the Caribbean Sea (to the east) and the North Pacific Ocean (to the west), with a total of 1,290 km of coastline (212 km on the Caribbean coast and 1,016 km on the Pacific). Costa Rica shares a border with Nicaragua to the north (313 km long border) and with Panama to the south (348 km long border). Extent of Costa Rica's western EEZ in the Pacific. The nation's terrain is a coastal plain separated by rugged mountains, the Cordillera Central and the Cordillera de Talamanca, which form the spine of the country and separate the Pacific and Caribbean watersheds.