Capsicum, which is the ingredient in peppers that gives off the heat and causes the burning sensation, stimulates all of your nerve endings in a positive way. Here’s the 5 reasons why “spicy hot” peppers is good for you:
Peppers have a lot going for them. They're low in calories and are loaded with good nutrition. All varieties are excellent sources of vitamins A and C, potassium, folic acid, and fiber. Plus, the spicy ones liven up bland food, making it more satisfying.
Serving Suggestions. Bell peppers prove versatile in the kitchen -- they're palatable and healthy whether consumed raw or cooked. Enjoy raw peppers as part of a salad, or pair pepper slices with salsa, guacamole or hummus for a healthy snack. Try roasting red peppers to use in sandwiches or wraps, or pureed into soups.
Best Answer: Health Benefits of Peppers All peppers are a good source of vitamins A, C, and K. All peppers are rich in vitamins A, C, and K, but red peppers are simply bursting with them. Antioxidant vitamins A and C help to prevent cell damage, cancer, and diseases related to aging, and they support immune function.
Eat bell pepper as a source of vitamin A and fiber. Bell peppers have a sweet flavor, and lack the fiery capsaicin of their spicier family members, the jalapeno and habanero.
Vitamin C. Bell peppers provide a source of vitamin C, or ascorbic acid. Vitamin C helps keep your tissues healthy and strong. It helps you make collagen, a protein that holds your bones, skin, tendons, ligaments and connective tissues together.
In theory, there's no vegetable better than the red pepper for bringing Mediterranean sunshine to a dish, but the majority of red peppers on sale in Britain are the thick-skinned glasshouse-grown bell variety.
Peppers that contain capsaicin include jalapenos, habaneros, cayenne, serrano, cherry peppers and even bell peppers. Eating peppers in the capsaicin family can benefit you because they play a role in digestive health, cardiovascular health and in long-term cancer prevention.
Jalapeno peppers are more than a zesty bite of heat sitting on top of your taco or enchilada -- they are a small but potent nutritional powerhouse, providing a variety of essential vitamins and minerals in each serving. Jalapeno peppers are low-fat, low-calorie and contain no cholesterol or saturated fat.