It has since became a standard at most Polynesian themed restaurants such as Don's and Trader Vic's. The earliest known print reference to a pupu platter served at a Chinese restaurant is from 1969. Later, other types of restaurants used pu pu platter to mean an appetizer combination platters. However, pu pu platters are currently more closely associated with American Chinese restaurants. At the time of the restaurant opening in 1957, Pu Pu Platters were considered a part of the luau feast. A typical platter at this establishment could have include baked clams, rumaki, Shrimp Vela (battered fried shrimp with coconut), chicken wings, egg rolls, spare ribs, or Javanese sate (satay) on skewers.
What is usually on a pu pu platter? I know its a silly question but im trying to order chinese food and I want to know whats on it........... Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Is a tray consisting of an assortment of small meat and seafood appetizers. A typical pupu platter might include an egg roll, spare ribs, chicken wings, skewered beef, fried wontons, and fried shrimp, among other items, accompanied with a small hibachi grill. alicias7768 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
Pu pu platter. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A Pu Pu platter, Pu-Pu platter or pupu platter is a tray of American Chinese cuisine or Hawaiian cuisine consisting of an assortment of small meat and seafood appetizers. At the time of the restaurant opening in 1957, Pu Pu Platters were considered a part of the luau feast. A typical platter at this establishment could have include baked clams, rumaki, Shrimp Vela (battered fried shrimp with coconut), chicken wings, egg rolls, spare ribs, or Javanese sate (satay) on skewers.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. The pu pu platter, which also has been called the po po platter, is a medley of appetizers that originated in Polynesia, but was largely popularized by Chinese restaurants scattered across the United States. Egg or spring rolls are often found on a pu pu platter. Sushi is often part of a light pu pu platter. In some restaurants a pu pu platter may be served buffet-style.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A Pu Pu Platter is a tray American Chinese cuisine consisting of an assortment of small meat and seafood appetizers. 
Hawaii is where the pu pu platter first took shape, with pu-pu being the native word for snail, though it also refers to hors d-oeuvres. The name is so pervasive that locals differentiate between a heavy and light pu pu platter. Egg or spring rolls are often found on a pu pu platter. Sushi is often part of a light pu pu platter. In some restaurants a pu pu platter may be served buffet-style.
Photo by Nikchick. Official histories of the Pu Pu platter (sometimes pupu or pu-pu but NEVER pooh-pooh) will tell you that though the dish has its origins in American Chinese cuisine, the name is actually derived from the Hawaiian word pū-pū, which means a type of hors d'oeuvre, relish or small bite. If anything, the purpose of the Pu Pu platter is to provide the consumer with a comprehensive buffet of appetizer options, and well, if it's just you doin' the consumin', so be it.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A pu pu platter (also pu-pu platter, pupu platter; traditional Chinese: 寶寶盤; simplified Chinese: 宝宝盘; pinyin: bǎo bǎo pan, pán bao3 bao3), pan2 as found In American chinese, cuisine is a tray consisting of an assortment of small meat and seafood. appetizers Asker's rating. Report Abuse. as found in American Chinese cuisine, is a tray consisting of an assortment of small meat and seafood appetizers. A typical pu pu platter might include an egg roll, spare ribs, chicken wings, skewered beef, fried wontons, and fried shrimp, among other items.