Transmission. Mosquitoes carry the parasite that causes heartworm disease from animal to animal. The life cycle of a heartworm begins when a mosquito bites an infected animal carrying heartworm microfilariae in its blood. If that mosquito bites another cat or dog, it transmits the larvae to that animal. The larvae mature into adult worms in the heart and lungs of the host animal.
The disease is spread by mosquitoes. When an infected dog is bitten by a mosquito, the blood that is withdrawn can contain heartworm offspring. When the mosquito bites a second dog, the offspring are passed through. Inside the host, the heartworm can grow into a parasite up to a foot in length. 
In the southern United States, especially the Gulf Coast and Florida, where mosquitoes are present year-round, the threat of heartworm disease is constant. Figure 1. Distribution of dog heartworm in the United States.Credit: American Heartworm Society. Development of heartworm in the vector starts when microfilariae are ingested by the female mosquito during blood feeding on an infected dog. Microfilariae leave the midgut of the mosquito soon after ingestion and migrate into the Malpighian tubule cells (the mosquito kidney).
Dogs are susceptible to heartworm if they tend to live in an area where there are many mosquitoes. Heartworms are parasites that are transferred from one dog to another by these small, flying insects. There are certain types of mosquitoes that carry the heartworm disease. The moment one mosquito bites into an infected dog and that same mosquito bites your pet, it will deposit the worm’s larva into your dog’s bloodstream. It will only take a short while for the eggs to mature. 
Heartworm disease affects dogs, cats and ferrets, but heartworms also live in other mammal species, including wolves, coyotes, foxes, sea lions and—in rare instances—humans. Because wild species such as foxes and coyotes live in proximity to many urban areas, they are considered important carriers of the disease. Cats. Heartworm disease in cats is very different from heartworm disease in dogs. The cat is an atypical host for heartworms, and most worms in cats do not survive to the adult stage. Cats with adult heartworms typically have just one to three worms, and many cats affected by heartworms have no adult worms.
Mosquitoes can carry the Heartworm parasite, a dangerous and common parasite that can affect your dog's heart and other organs. 
The complete development of the nematode parasite requires two hosts: dog and mosquito (Figure 2). In the dog, sexually mature adult nematodes are large (females up to 14 inches and males up to 7 inches) and cause disease by clogging the heart and major blood vessels leading from the heart. Development of heartworm in the vector starts when microfilariae are ingested by the female mosquito during blood feeding on an infected dog. Microfilariae leave the midgut of the mosquito soon after ingestion and migrate into the Malpighian tubule cells (the mosquito kidney).
Mosquitoes pick up heartworm larvae when they bite an animal already carrying the parasite. These baby worms travel through the bloodstream of the infected animal, and when a mosquito bites that infected animal, the larvae can now travel from one animal to another. Heartworm is caused by the heartworm larvae. This often fatal disease can affect family pets if they have been bitten by a mosquito carrying the larvae. The disease is preventable through a variety of drugs that have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
Not only can mosquitoes carry diseases that afflict humans, they also transmit several diseases and parasites that dogs and horses are very susceptible to. These include dog heartworm, West Nile virus (WNV) and Eastern equine encephalitis (EEE). In addition, mosquito bites can cause severe skin irritation through an allergic reaction to the mosquito's saliva-this is what causes the red bump and itching.
Mosquitoes are famous carriers of the heartworm parasite, which is a small roundworm. Heartworm disease starts when a mosquito that carries the parasite bites a dog, cat or other animal. Because mosquitoes are blood-sucking insects, each bite spreads the disease from one animal to another. The heartworm can grow up to a foot-long and lives in the heart, lungs and major arteries of our pets. Heartworm is caused by the heartworm larvae. This often fatal disease can affect family pets if they have been bitten by a mosquito carrying the larvae. The disease is preventable through a variety of drugs that have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.