A histologist is a professional who studies the microscopic structure of tissue. To become a histologist, a student must earn a bachelor's degree that includes a one-year clinical internship or complete a multi-year training program in a histopathology laboratory. 1 'The ideal candidate will have an associate's degree or certificate of completion in histology. 2  Bachelor's degree is preferred with more than one year of experience in a hospital setting. 3  Histologist certification is required.' -- Saint Anthony Hospital.
Community Tissue Services is registered with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), accredited by the American Association of Tissue Banks (AATB) and maintains all applicable state licenses. The Center for Tissue, Innovation and Research is ISO 13485:2003 certified. 
Recovery Techs Reap Rewards. In 2012, the average surgical technologists brought home $43,480 a year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Of the top 10 percent, salaries exceeded $60,240, while salaries for the bottom 10 percent were often less than $29,710. But these figures are regardless of specialty. Another factor in the lower pay is training, as tissue recovery technicians usually enter the field of tissue procurement as surgical technologists. Generally, surgical technologists hold either a certificate or associate degree. Employers may also ask tissue recovery technicians to earn their Certified Tissue Bank Specialist or Certified Eye Bank Technician designation
The exam is given at the same time across the country  Examinees may sit for the exam at the Annual Meeting location  Other tissue banks volunteer to administer the exam either at the bank or another suitable location.  2007 Had 18 exam test sites including one in: Canada, Belgium, and Korea. Future of Exam  The survey was important because test sites are not open on Saturday for one of computer-based testing companies we are considering  ABTB is in the process of evaluating these computer-based testing companies  We anticipate moving to this type of testing mechanism.
***It has been brought to the attention of the AATB that some independent companies have created study guides, practice tests and flash cards intended to help candidates prepare for the AATB CTBS exam. These documents are not endorsed by the AATB, and many of the test answers included in the material are incorrect. 
Requirements to be a Histologist. Normally, to qualify for an entry-level position as a histologist, an applicant will need to have a bachelor's degree with a major in medical technology or one of the life sciences. 1 'The ideal candidate will have an associate's degree or certificate of completion in histology. 2  Bachelor's degree is preferred with more than one year of experience in a hospital setting. 3  Histologist certification is required.' -- Saint Anthony Hospital.
Procurement Pay Varies. As with most occupations, earnings vary by location. Of the states, tissue procurement techs in New York earned one of the higher salaries, at an average of $64,000 a year. Those working in California also fared better than most, earning an average of $57,000 annually. Another factor in the lower pay is training, as tissue recovery technicians usually enter the field of tissue procurement as surgical technologists. Generally, surgical technologists hold either a certificate or associate degree. Employers may also ask tissue recovery technicians to earn their Certified Tissue Bank Specialist or Certified Eye Bank Technician designation
Qualifications – High school diploma or equivalent. Associate or Bachelor degree in related field preferred. Six months of tissue banking experience or one year in medical related field required. AATB Certified Tissue Banking Specialist (CTBS) and/or EBAA Certified Eye Bank Technician (CEBT) preferred. Working knowledge of computers and basic data entry skills required.
OPOs must be certified by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and abide by CMS regulations. By federal law, all OPOs must be members of the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN). All OPOs are members of the Association of Organ Procurement Organizations. There are 58 organ procurement organizations (OPOs) in the United States. OPOs are responsible for two main functions within their designated service area: 1) increasing the number of registered donors, and 2) coordinating the donation process when actual donors become available. 