A sample of Bolian blood. Yellowish Na'kuhl blood. Blood chemistry is a term used to describe the composition of elements, chemicals, and other substances in an individual's blood. The chemistry of the metal-protein complex of the component cells responsible for respiratory delivery influence the color of the blood.
Romulans have either dark brown or black hair, which is also true of their eye color, again, either dark brown or black. Due to its xenophobic nature, the Romulan society does not tolerate anything less then pure Romulan, so diversion from the above is generally considered somewhat of a social stigma.
1 While the pigment in Vulcan and Romulan blood may use copper similarly to how human blood uses iron, the pigment would not be all that much like hemoglobin. 2  The usual color of copper-based respiratory pigments in Earth life (which are similar to hemoglobin) is blue.
A Romulan with blood on his face. Nanoprobes assimilating blood cells. Blood is the circulatory fluid that runs through most corporeal lifeforms in the universe. Its primary function is to carry nutrients and respiratory gases to cells and to remove waste products. Blood transfusions can only be undertaken between individuals with the same blood composition.
This is due to oxygenated iron in the red blood cells. Deoxygenated … blood is a darker shade of red, which can be seen during blood donation and when venous blood samples are taken. However, due to an optical effect caused by the way in which light penetrates through the skin, veins typically appear blue in color.
Romulans tend to look somewhat like Vulcans, but with a slightly different forehead structure. Typical physical makeup and attributes for the common Romulan male and female are listed below.
quoth Chuzat: Now as for the color of blood in hybrids: human blood is red because the metal in the hemoglobin in Iron, and Vulcans are green because the Iron is replaced with Copper. A true hybrid would have an Iron/Copper based hemoglobin because the blending is more at the genetic level.