A proposed director or senior executive officer may begin service before the end of the 30-day period or any additional time period as provided under paragraph (a) of this section, if the FDIC notifies the bank and the individual in writing of the FDIC's intention not to disapprove the notice. (2) The bank is in troubled condition; or. (3) The FDIC determines, in connection with its review of a capital restoration plan required under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o (e)(2)) or otherwise, that such notice is appropriate.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is a United States government corporation operating as an independent agency created by the Banking Act of 1933. As of August 2014, it provides deposit insurance guaranteeing the safety of a depositor's accounts in member banks up to $250,000 for each deposit ownership category in each insured bank. As of August 27, 2014, the FDIC insured deposits at 6,638 institutions.
The board of directors of member banks should receive reports from any executive officer who is indebted to foreign banks in excess of the amounts specified in section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act. The term bank as used in section 22(g)(6) includes foreign banks. STAFF OP. of Dec. 10, 1979. Directors and executives of inactive subsidiaries of a bank holding company are not considered executive officers for the purposes of Regulation O if they are not involved in the subsidiary bank's policies and affairs. STAFF OP. of July 12, 1979.
Loans by a wholly owned subsidiary of a member bank to an executive officer of the bank can and should be attributed to the bank for the purposes of Regulation O. STAFF OP. of April 1, 1969. Directors and executives of inactive subsidiaries of a bank holding company are not considered executive officers for the purposes of Regulation O if they are not involved in the subsidiary bank's policies and affairs. STAFF OP. of July 12, 1979.
Definition of EXECUTIVE OFFICER. : the officer second in command of a military or naval organization or vessel. ADVERTISEMENT. 
ยง 303.100 Scope. This subpart sets forth the circumstances under which an insured state nonmember bank must notify the FDIC of a change in any member of its board of directors or any senior executive officer and the procedures for filing such notice. This subpart implements section 32 of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831i). (2) The bank is in troubled condition; or. (3) The FDIC determines, in connection with its review of a capital restoration plan required under section 38(e)(2) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o (e)(2)) or otherwise, that such notice is appropriate.
Requires an executive officer or director of a member bank, if the bank's shares are not publicly traded, to report annually to the board of directors of the bank the outstanding amount of any credit that has been extended to the executive officer or director and was secured by shares of the member bank. Section 215.10 Reports on credit to executive officers. States that each member bank must include with each report of condition a report of all extensions of credit by the bank to its executive officers since the date of the bank's previous report of condition.
Titles VIII and IX authorize the federal banking agencies to issue regulations to require the reporting and public disclosure of information concerning extensions of credit by a bank or by a bank's correspondent banks to the executive officers and principal shareholders of the bank. Directors and executives of inactive subsidiaries of a bank holding company are not considered executive officers for the purposes of Regulation O if they are not involved in the subsidiary bank's policies and affairs. STAFF OP. of July 12, 1979.
Section 215.5 Additional restrictions on loans to executive officers of member banks. Sets a limit on loans to an executive officer of a member bank, unless the loan is for a stipulated purpose or is secured in a stipulated manner. Section 215.10 Reports on credit to executive officers. States that each member bank must include with each report of condition a report of all extensions of credit by the bank to its executive officers since the date of the bank's previous report of condition.
The Commission used thesame definition in defining executive officer (except the word issuer is substituted for the wordregistrant) for purposes of information to be contained in the annual report to shareholders. See17 C.F.Rt ยง 240.14a-3(b)(7) (1975) and note thereto.11. However, who is an officer for purposes of the SecuritiesExchange Act of 19342 (1934 Act) cannot be ascertained from statestatutes or corporation by-laws, nor determined from the conferring ofofficer titles by the board of directors of a corporation.