Dosage of Abilify for Schizophrenia. The recommended starting Abilify dose for schizophrenia in adults is 10 mg to 15 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30 mg per day. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase the dose up to 30 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for bipolar disorder in adults is 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your bipolar disorder symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30
For children and adolescents age 10 to 17 years old, the recommended starting Abilify dose for bipolar disorder is Abilify 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to Abilify 10 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase the dose up to 30 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for bipolar disorder in adults is 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your bipolar disorder symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 3
Schizophrenia-The recommended dose of Abilify for adults is 10 mg to 15 mg in a day. The starting dose for adolescents (15 to 17 years) is 2 mg of tablet in a day that can be gradually increased to 10 mg in a day. 
Pediatrics: The recommended starting dose in pediatric patients (10 to 17 years) as monotherapy is 2 mg/day, with titration to 5 mg/day after 2 days, and a target dose of 10 mg/day after 2 additional days. Acute Treatment of Manic and Mixed Episodes. Adults: The recommended starting dose in adults is 15 mg given once daily as monotherapy and 10 mg to 15 mg given once daily as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. ABILIFY can be given without regard to meals.
Manic episodes in Bipolar I Disorder: the recommended starting dose for ABILIFY is 15 mg (i.e. 15 ml solution/day) administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals as monotherapy or combination therapy (see section 5.1). Some patients may benefit from a higher dose. Manic episodes in Bipolar I Disorder: the recommended starting dose for ABILIFY is 15 mg administered on a once-a-day schedule without regard to meals as monotherapy or combination therapy (see section 5.1). Some patients may benefit from a higher dose. The maximum daily dose should not exceed 30 mg.
The recommended starting dose for ABILIFY as adjunctive treatment for patients already taking an antidepressant is 2 to 5 mg/day. The recommended dosage range is 2 to 15 mg/day. Dosage adjustments of up to 5 mg/day should occur gradually, at intervals of no less than 1 week [see Clinical Studies ]. Acute Treatment of Manic and Mixed Episodes. Adults: The recommended starting dose in adults is 15 mg given once daily as monotherapy and 10 mg to 15 mg given once daily as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. ABILIFY can be given without regard to meals.
Aripiprazole Dosing for Schizophrenia. The recommended adult starting aripiprazole dose for schizophrenia is 10 mg to 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your schizophrenia symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30 mg once daily. 
For adolescents age 13 to 17 years old, the recommended starting Abilify dose for schizophrenia is Abilify 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to Abilify 10 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase the dose up to 30 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for bipolar disorder in adults is 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your bipolar disorder symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30 mg once daily.
Aripiprazole (Abilify ® ; Bristol-Myers Squibb) is available in 5, 10, 15, 20, and 30 mg tablets. In adults, the recommended starting dose of aripiprazole for the treatment of schizophrenia is 10 to 15 mg given once daily. After two weeks, the dose may be increased to as much as 30 mg/day as needed. In patients with bipolar disease, the usual dose is 30 mg given once daily
Abilify Dosage for Autism. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for autistic disorder in children 6 through 17 years old is 2 mg once daily. If necessary to control the irritability symptoms, your child's healthcare provider may increase the dose gradually up to 15 mg once daily. The recommended starting Abilify dose for treating major depression (when used along with an antidepressant) in adults is 2 mg to 5 mg once daily. The effective dose is usually Abilify 5 to 10