People can go a long time without food, but lack of hydration will take her first. If she's still alive, please call you local hospice. They can tell you that she is in a state where she is not suffering from lack of food or hydration. She is beyond that. 
When someone is no longer taking in any fluid, and if he or she is bedridden (and so needs little fluid) then this person may live as little as a few days or as long as a couple of weeks. In the normal dying process people lose their sense of hunger or thirst. All these unique health factors affect how someone experiences the total burden of the illness and how long she or he will live. Some people believe that a person's will to live also affects a person's burden of illness and so may also affect life expectancy.
Going without water isn't smart, and it doesn't take long before you're suffering from dehydration. Food is a different story. Humans can go quite a long time without food as long as they're well hydrated. Your body weight, overall health and the weather play into the scenario as well. 
Best Answer: First, I am so sorry. Cancer is debilitating to the families as well as the patients. A healthy person can three minutes without air, three days without water, and three weeks without food. As your dad is weakened by the disease, this probably won't apply to him. Keep your vigil, and let him know how much he is loved. Source(s):
We can't live on air and sunshine alone. The human body needs food and water to survive. A human can go for more than three weeks without food (Mahatma Gandhi survived 21 days of complete starvation), but water is a different story. At least 60% of the adult body is made of it and every living cell in the body needs it to keep functioning
Now back to the question at hand. How long can you go without water? Assuming you're in reasonable shape and in ideal conditions -- that is, not in the heat or cold and not exerting, a human can probably live for about 3 to 5 days without any water. Healthier humans can live another day or so longer. This isn't something you should test.
A person can live at least a month without food. The body starts using any fat and muscle tissue for food. Water is much more important since dehydration can lead to organ failure, the blood gets thicker and there are problems with that. a few days to a week or so I think is the longest. Cancer is debilitating to the families as well as the patients. A healthy person can three minutes without air, three days without water, and three weeks without food. As your dad is weakened by the disease, this probably won't apply to him. Keep your vigil, and let him know how much he is loved.
You can live 3 minutes without air, though we don't recommend trying. In a harsh environment — it's snowing, say — you have 3 hours to survive without shelter. After 3 days, you need water or you'll perish. You can make it 3 weeks without food, though we promise you that won't be fun. Despite this possibly helpful rule, some people have survived 8 to 10 days without water. Again, leave such shenanigans to the truly desperate.
A person can survive only three to five days without water, in some cases people have survived for an average of one week. It is not recommended that anyone try this at home. Once the body is deprived of fluids the cells and organs in the body begin to deteriorate. 
Save. The human body cannot survive without food and water for long periods of time. In fact, according to SurvivalTopics.com, the longest a person can go without water is 10 days--without food, it's four to six weeks. However, due to certain other variables, these numbers can vary. Second to oxygen, water is the most important compound that the human body needs for survival.