On September 19, 2007, Travelport became the first travel company to receive a 100 percent rating on the sixth annual Corporate Equality Index awarded by the American Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Worldspan achieved the 100 percent rating on HRC's Corporate Equality Index in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. In May 2007 the company filed a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to sell a portion of Orbitz Worldwide in an initial public offering (IPO). The IPO was priced on July 20, 2007, opening at $15.00 per share, and closed on July 25, 2007.
the world’s leading provider of informed travel choice. Travelport is one of the world's largest and most geographically diverse travel companies. Our global footprint connects buyers and suppliers to an expanding array of travel content. We thrive on knowing your business inside and out, and providing you with the solutions you need to be profitable and productive.
About Travelport. Travelport helps people with their journeys, whether it be by land, air, or sea. Through its primary Global Distribution Systems (GDS) division, the firm operates electronic reservation platforms Worldspan and Galileo and travel agency service provider THOR. GDS connects travel agencies, websites, and corporations with travel suppliers worldwide
It's free! Travelport is a Travel Commerce Platform providing distribution, technology, payment and other solutions for the global travel and tourism industry. With a presence in over 170 countries, over 3,500 employees and 2014 net revenue of over $2.1 billion, Travelport is comprised of: Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. Travelport is a Travel Commerce Platform providing distribution, technology, payment and other solutions for the global travel and tourism industry.
Travelport is a Travel Commerce Platform providing distribution, technology, payment and other solutions for global travel and tourism industry. With a presence in over 170 countries, over 3,500 employees and 2014 net revenue of over $2.1 billion. We are a leading travel commerce platform providing distribution, technology, payment and other solutions for the $8 trillion global travel and tourism industry.
Worldspan is a provider of travel technology and content and a part of the Travelport GDS business. It offers worldwide electronic distribution of travel information, Internet products and connectivity, and e-commerce capabilities for travel agencies, travel service providers and corporations. Its primary system is commonly known as a Global Distribution System (GDS), which is used by travel agents and travel related websites to book airline tickets, hotel rooms, rental cars, tour packages and associated products. Worldspan also hosts IT services and product solutions for major airlines.
Copyright © 2015 Travelport. All rights reserved. Travelport, the Travelport logo, Apollo, Galileo, and Worldspan are trademarks of Travelport. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. 
Connect to our platform and your brand and products are shared and promoted to the world’s travel agencies, corporate buyers and developers. 1  Airlines. 2  Hotels. 3  Cars. 4  Rail. 