deb-bie, de-bb-ie ] The baby girl name Debbie is pronounced as D EH B-iy- †. Debbie is an English name of Hebrew origin. Debbie is a pet form of the name Deborah (English, French, German, and Hebrew). Debbie is rare as a baby name for girls. At the peak of its usage in 1959, 0.940% of baby girls were given the name Debbie. Its ranking then was #20.
Debbie /deb-bie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Debbie's root is Hebrew, and the meaning of Debbie is bee. Debbie is a version of Deborah (Hebrew).ebbie is a very prominent first name for women (#141 out of 4276, Top 3%) and a slightly less prominent last name for both adults and children (#136783 out of 150436, Top 91%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Debbi
Meaning of Debbie. English name. In English, the name Debbie means-Popularized as an independent name in the 1950s by American actress Debbie Reynolds.. Other origins for the name Debbie include-English, Israeli, Hebrew. The name Debbie is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Popularized as an independent name in the 1950s by American actress Debbie Reynolds. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-Israeli Hebrew.
Debbie (or Debby or Deb) is a feminine given name, commonly but not always short for Deborah (or Debra and related variants). The word is derived from a word meaning  bee  in Hebrew.
The name Debbie is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Debbie is: Bee. Deborah was the Biblical prophetess who summoned Barak to battle against an army of invaders. After the battle she wrote a victory song which is part of the Book of Judges. American Meaning:
The character's name, Debbie Downer, is a slang phrase which refers to someone who frequently adds bad news and negative feelings to a gathering, thus bringing down the mood of everyone around them.
Debbie is a very prominent first name for women (#141 out of 4276, Top 3%) and a slightly less prominent last name for both adults and children (#136783 out of 150436, Top 91%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Debbie for girls.
Meaning of Debbie. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Debbie means-Diminutive of Deborah: Bee. Deborah was the Biblical prophetess who summoned Barak to battle against an army of invaders. After the battle she wrote a victory song which is part of the Book of Judges.. Other origins for the name Debbie include-Hebrew, Israeli, English. The name Debbie is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Diminutive of Deborah: Bee. Deborah was the Biblical prophetess who summoned Barak to battle against an army of invaders.
Origin of the name Debbie: A pet form of Deborah, derived from the Hebrew dēvōrah (a bee, a swarm of bees). The name is borne in the Bible by a prophetess and judge who led the Israelites to victory over the Canaanites. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.