Chitin. Chitin is a nitrogenous polysaccharide found in the exoskeleton of the tarantula. It's a tough semitransparent horny substance; the principal component of the exoskeletons of arthropods and the cell walls of certain fungi. 
Cell walls can be composed of polysaccharides, proteins, lipids, or a combination of these. Cell walls provide increased mechanical strength and resistance to lysis by osmotic shock (water moving into the cell). Cell walls are found in the cells of eubacteria, archaebacteria, fungi, algae, and plants. The cell walls vary greatly in their compositions: 1  Eubacteria. 2  Almost all eubacterial species have cell walls containing a polysaccharide called peptidoglycan.
Plant cell walls are mostly made of the polysaccharide cellulose. They also contain a large amount of hemicellulose and pectin. Bacterial cell walls are made of peptidoglycan. The cell walls of plants can actually have two layers. The primary structure is a polysaccharide known as cellulose (which is actually not digestible when consumed by humans …).
Bacterial Cell Walls. In eubacteria, the cell wall is composed of one or more layers of a peptidoglycan, called murein. A peptidoglycan is a combination of peptides and sugars. Murein is composed of the sugars N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid. To murein are linked peptide extensions that are crosslinked to form the netlike wall. The cell walls of fungi are diverse among the taxonomic groups, but most contain chitin microfibrils embedded in a polysaccharide matrix and covered with a loose coating of additional molecules combining sugars and peptides (amino acid chains).
Polysaccharides are an important class of biological polymers. Their function in living organisms is usually either structure-or storage-related. Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'
Chitin : Chitin is an extracellular structural polysaccharide found in large quantities in the body covering (cuticle) of arthropods and in smaller amounts in sponges, mollusks, and annelids. Chitin has also been identified in the cell walls of most fungi and some green algae. Starch : Starch is a nutrient polysaccharide found in plant cells, protists, and certain bacteria and is similar in many respects to glycogen. (In fact, glycogen is often referred to as “animal starch.”) Starch usually occurs in cells in the form of granules visible by both light and electron microscopy.
Plant cell walls are mostly made of the polysaccharide cellulose. They also contain a large amount of hemicellulose and pectin. Bacterial cell walls are made of peptidoglycan. 
In addition, the cell wall acts as a filtering mechanism. A major function of the cell wall is to act as a pressure vessel, preventing over-expansion when water enters the cell. Cell walls are found in plants, fungi and prokaryotic cells but not in mycoplasmas. The composition of the cell wall varies between species and may depend on cell type and developmental stage. The primary cell wall of land plants is composed of the polysaccharides cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin. In bacteria, peptidoglycan forms the cell wall. Archaean cell walls have various compositions, and may be formed of glycoprotein S-layers, pseudopeptidoglycan, or polysaccharides. Fungi possess cell walls made of the glucosamine polymer chitin, and algae typically possess walls made of glycoproteins and polysaccharides. Unusually, diatoms have a cell wall composed of biogenic silica. Often, other accessory molecules are found anchored to the cell wall. 
Advertisements: Included in this group are cellulose (found in plant cell walls), mannan (found in yeast cell walls), chitin (in the shells of arthropods and the cell walls of some fungi), hyaluronic acid, keratan sulfate, and chondroitin sulfate (in connective tis­sue) and the peptidoglycans of bacteria. Starch : Starch is a nutrient polysaccharide found in plant cells, protists, and certain bacteria and is similar in many respects to glycogen. (In fact, glycogen is often referred to as “animal starch.”) Starch usually occurs in cells in the form of granules visible by both light and electron microscopy.