An autotroph is an organism that produces its own food. It is  usually a unicellular organism. Autotrophs utilize photosynthesis  to produce their food (typically the nutrie … nt glucose). An  autotroph is also referred to as a producer. An example of an  autotroph is algae. A heterotroph is an organism that receives its  food from other sources. It is a multicellular or unicellular  organism. 
Chemosynthesis is the biological conversion of one or more carbon molecules (usually carbon dioxide or methane) and nutrients into organic matter using the oxidation of inorganic molecules (e.g. hydrogen gas, hydrogen sulfide) or methane as a source of energy, rather than sunlight, as in photosynthesis. They take energy from the environment (in the form of sunlight or inorganic chemicals) and use it to create carbon-based organic molecules. Other organisms, called heterotrophs, take in autotrophs as food to carry out such functions.
chemosynthesis. chemosynthesis, process in which carbohydrates are manufactured from carbon dioxide and water using chemical nutrients as the energy source, rather than the sunlight used for energy in photosynthesis. Most life on earth is fueled directly or indirectly by sunlight. There are, however, certain groups of bacteria, referred to as chemosynthetic autotrophs, that are fueled not by the sun but by the oxidation of simple inorganic chemicals, such as sulfates or ammonia. Chemosynthetic autotrophs are a necessary part of the nitrogen cycle.
Photosynthesis occurs in plants and some bacteria, wherever there is sufficient sunlight – on land, in shallow water, even inside and below clear ice. Chemosynthesis is the use of energy released by inorganic chemical reactions to produce food. Chemosynthesis is at the heart of deep-sea communities, sustaining life in absolute darkness, where sunlight does not penetrate. Other bacteria make organic matter by reducing sulfide or oxidizing methan
In addition to the heterotrophs, there are many kinds of autotrophic bacteria, able to produce their own food. These autotrophs may be photosynthetic or chemosynthetic and may or may not use oxygen in their synthetic pathways. Cyanobacteria are the largest group of photosynthetic eubacteria. 
The second phyla of the Eubacteria Kingdom is the autotrophs. The Autotrophs is bacteria that is photosynthetic. An autotroph is an organism that can make there own food. the way that they make there own food is through photosynthesis, which uses the suns energy to make the sugar molecules. Tis bacteria is commonly found with a blue-green color. This is why sometimes that bacteria is also called blue-green bacteria.
Photosynthesis and chemosynthesis are both processes by which organisms produce food; photosynthesis is powered by sunlight while chemosynthesis runs on chemical energy. Chemosynthesis is the use of energy released by inorganic chemical reactions to produce food. Chemosynthesis is at the heart of deep-sea communities, sustaining life in absolute darkness, where sunlight does not penetrate.
Chemosynthesis. Most life on Earth is dependent upon photosynthesis, the process by which plants make energy from sunlight. However, at hydrothermal vents in the deep ocean a unique ecosystem has evolved in the absense of sunlight, and its source of energy is completely different: chemosynthesis.
Report Abuse. An autotroph is an organism that produces complex organic compounds from simple inorganic molecules using energy from light or inorganic chemical reactions. Autotrophs are the producers in a food chain. Plants and other organisms which carry out photosynthesis are photoautotrophs (or phototrophs). Bacteria which derive energy from oxidizing inorganic compounds (such as hydrogen sulfide, ammonium and ferrous iron) are chemoautotrophs, and include the lithotrophs. They take energy from the environment (in the form of sunlight or inorganic chemicals) and use it to create carbon-based organic molecules. Other organisms, called heterotrophs, take in autotrophs as food to carry out such functions.