Shingles is more common in older adults and those with weakened immunity. Both chickenpox vaccine (Varilrix® and Varivax®) and shingles vaccine (Zostavax®) are live vaccines that contain varicella-zoster virus that has been carefully weakened to safely protect against disease. Women should be reassured that the weakened varicella-zoster virus in chickenpox and shingles vaccines has not been linked to specific problems in babies born to women who have received vaccines containing this virus whilst pregnant.
Best Answer: They are not interchangable. The shingles vaccine contains more of the virus antigen than the chickenpox vaccine. Chickenpox vaccine is given in 2 doses, shingles in 1 dose. Currently no boosters are recommended. Edit: Yes, the type of attenuated virus is exactly the same. The manufacturer of both vaccines (Merck) uses the same virus stock to produce the two vaccines (actually three vaccines, varicella, or chickenpox, MMRV-a combination measles, mumps, rubella, and chickenpox vaccine, and zoster, or shingles vaccine). It is the amounts that are different. 
The chickenpox (varicella) vaccine is made from live, attenuated (weakened) varicella virus. But chickenpox vaccine provides only TEMPORARY immunity, and even that immunity is not the same kind of superior, longer lasting immunity that you get when you recover naturally from chickenpox. 
The zoster vaccine is, essentially, a larger-than-normal dose of the chickenpox vaccine (Varivax, Varilrix), as both shingles (prevented by Zostavax) and chickenpox (prevented by Varivax/Varilrix, even prevented by Zostavax as well) are caused by the same virus, the varicella zoster virus (VZV). The zoster vaccine (trade name Zostavax) is a live vaccine developed by Merck & Co. that has been shown to reduce the incidence of herpes zoster (known as shingles) by 51.3% in a study of 38,000 adults aged 60 and older who received the vaccine.
Shingles vaccine. The Food and Drug Administration has approved the use of the varicella-zoster vaccine (Zostavax) for adults age 50 and older. Like the chickenpox vaccine, the shingles vaccine doesn't guarantee you won't get shingles. But this vaccine will likely reduce the course and severity of the disease and reduce your risk of postherpetic neuralgia. The shingles vaccine is used only as a prevention strategy, however.
The herpes zoster (shingles) vaccine (Zostavax) is a stronger version of the chickenpox vaccine. It was originally approved in 2006 for adults age 60 years and older. In 2011, the FDA lowered the recommended age for Zostavax to 50. Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus, a member of the herpes virus family. The same virus also causes herpes zoster, or shingles, in adults. Chickenpox is extremely contagious, and can be spread by direct contact, droplet transmission, and airborne transmission.
HealthDay Reporter. MONDAY, Dec. 2, 2013 (HealthDay News) -- The prevalence of a painful condition known as shingles is increasing in the United States, but new research says the chickenpox vaccine isn't to blame. Shingles is caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox, the varicella zoster virus. Researchers have theorized that widespread chickenpox vaccination since the 1990s might have given shingles an unintended boost. 
Prevention. Two vaccines may help prevent shingles — the chickenpox (varicella) vaccine and the shingles (varicella-zoster) vaccine. Like the chickenpox vaccine, the shingles vaccine doesn't guarantee you won't get shingles. But this vaccine will likely reduce the course and severity of the disease and reduce your risk of postherpetic neuralgia. The shingles vaccine is used only as a prevention strategy, however.
Introduction. Both chickenpox and shingles are caused by the same virus called varicella-zoster. You can only get shingles if you have previously had chickenpox (or, rarely, chickenpox vaccine). Women should be reassured that the weakened varicella-zoster virus in chickenpox and shingles vaccines has not been linked to specific problems in babies born to women who have received vaccines containing this virus whilst pregnant.