Human eye color charts once were used to predict eye colors of children. In the most simplified versions of these charts, brown eyes are considered dominant over both blue and green eyes. And green eyes are thought to be dominant over blue eyes.
Most Common Eye Colors. Brown. The eye color that can be described as the most common amongst human beings is brown, with the exception of countries around the Baltic Sea. It is the result of the presence of large amounts of melanin (eumelanin) within the iris stroma.
Blue eyes are quite common amongst people, especially those born in Germany, Netherlands, Iceland, Austria, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, and Estonia. The reason behind this eye color is low amounts of melanin within the iris stroma.
Eye colors depend on the amount of pigment (melanin) found in the iris and how it is distributed. Light gray-blue eyes contain much less pigment than extremely dark brown eyes. And there are many shades of eye color in between. SEE ALSO: Some people are even born with eyes of two different colors, a condition known as heterochromia. More Info. 1  Find out about the hidden eye health dangers of UV. 2  TheraTears has patented nutrients that match your natural tears.
Gray. Gray eye color is considered to be a darker shade of blue (like blue-green). This eye color is related to low melanin in the iris and is related to scant pigmentation throughout the body (like pale skin, light hair, etc). Gray eyes have been found to reveal small amounts of yellow and brown color in the iris.
Hazel eyes are similar to brown eyes, although they are typically lighter in color, and have more of a green-yellow tint. Hazel eyes have a higher concentration of melanin (pigment) around the eye's border, which can result in a multi-colored appearance that varies between copper and green depending on the lighting.
Brown eyes are the most common eye color in the world with over 55% of the world's population having brown eyes. Brown eye color is a dominant genetic trait, and is created by the presence of melanin in the eye.