Origin of LUNA. Hawaiian, literally, high, above. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Luna /ˈluːnə/ is an Italian and Spanish given name of Latin origin meaning Moon. It is also found as a surname, sometimes with a prefix, for example, de Luna or Deluna. 
Middle English, from Medieval Latin, from Latin, moon — more at lunar. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Meaning of Luna. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Luna means-the moon. Other origins for the name Luna include-Latin-American, Latin.The name Luna is most often used as a girl name or female name. Latin-American Name Meaning-the moon. Origin-Latin-America.
This has the same meaning as Honeymoon in English. You can divide the word Honeymoon and split it, it will have the exact same meaning. Honey, on one side, means Miel in s … panish. And moon is Luna in spanish. So, put these two words together and it forms Luna Miel. Luna means Moon in latin and solvo means releases. It is supposed to mean The moon releases. During this event all planets are aligned in a special way and the moon seems 3 … time bigger than usual. This happens every 93 years.
Latin Meaning: The name Luna is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Luna is: The moon. In Mythology Luna is one of the names of Artemis the moon goddess. American Meaning: The name Luna is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Luna is: The moon. In Mythology Luna is one of the names of Artemis the moon goddess.
It is Luna Lovegood's name. In Spanish and in Latin, Luna means moon. In the case of Luna Lovegood, the name is related to the fact that she is generally considered slightly … lunatic. 1 person found this useful. Luna means Moon in latin and solvo means releases. It is supposed to mean The moon releases. During this event all planets are aligned in a special way and the moon seems 3 … time bigger than usual. This happens every 93 years.
Luna /lu-na/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LOO-nah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Luna is moon. Mythology: one of the names of Artemis, goddess of the moon. 