Institutional Trading. Our mission is to leverage our global relationships and access regional market color to effectively source natural liquidity and execute precision trades on behalf of our clients. 
The BTIG Commissions for Charity Day is a star-studded event. Throughout the trading day, all-star athletes, top-recording artists, celebrities from film and television and cultural icons join BTIG in an effort to raise money for a variety of charities worldwide. Celebrities committed to join BTIG this year so far include Eli Manning, Mark Cuban, Shaquille O’Neal, Tom Coughlin, Joe Girardi, Allan Houston, Petra Nemcova, Jeremy Roenick, Bobby Valentine, Woody Johnson, Victor Cruz, and Beth Ostrosky Stern.
Models, actors, beauty queens and pro-athletes are taking over the trading floors of BTIG 's offices world-wide today. That's because the brokerage firm is hosting it's 11th annual Commissions for Charity Day.. 
It serves institutional clients worldwide. The company was founded in 2002 and is based in San Francisco, California. It has additional offices in New York, San Francisco, Dallas, Boston, Chicago, Greenwich, Red Bank, Norwalk, Orinda, Atlanta, and Los Angeles. BTIG, LLC operates as a subsidiary of Condor Trading LP. BTIG, LLC announced two senior hires within its Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities division. Based in Chicago, Holly Liss, CMT, and Philip Ruffat have joined BTIG's Futures and Commodities Group as Managing Directors.
About BTIG. BTIG is a global financial services firm specializing in institutional trading, investment banking, research and related brokerage services. With an extensive global footprint and more than 500 employees, BTIG, LLC and its affiliates operate out of 14 cities in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
About BTIG. BTIG is a global financial services firm specializing in institutional trading, investment banking and related brokerage services. With an extensive global footprint and more than 475 employees, BTIG, LLC and its affiliates operate out of 13 cities throughout the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific. Celebrities committed to join BTIG this year so far include Eli Manning, Mark Cuban, Shaquille O’Neal, Tom Coughlin, Joe Girardi, Allan Houston, Petra Nemcova, Jeremy Roenick, Bobby Valentine, Woody Johnson, Victor Cruz, and Beth Ostrosky Stern.
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- BTIG, LLC, a global financial services firm specializing in institutional trading, investment banking and related brokerage services, announced today that it will host its 13 th annual international Commissions for Charity Day on Tuesday, April 28, 2015. Celebrities committed to join BTIG this year so far include Eli Manning, Mark Cuban, Shaquille O’Neal, Tom Coughlin, Joe Girardi, Allan Houston, Petra Nemcova, Jeremy Roenick, Bobby Valentine, Woody Johnson, Victor Cruz, and Beth Ostrosky Stern.
Since 2003, BTIG has raised more than US$30 million for hundreds of charitable organizations around the world, including over US$5 million from the May 2014 event last year. Charities are nominated by clients and the firm encourages the selection of child-focused charities. Celebrities committed to join BTIG this year so far include Eli Manning, Mark Cuban, Shaquille O’Neal, Tom Coughlin, Joe Girardi, Allan Houston, Petra Nemcova, Jeremy Roenick, Bobby Valentine, Woody Johnson, Victor Cruz, and Beth Ostrosky Stern.
BTIG, LLC provides institutional brokerage and fund services. The company specializes in global trading and fund services for hedge funds, mutual funds, separate accounts, and family offices. BTIG, LLC announced two senior hires within its Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities division. Based in Chicago, Holly Liss, CMT, and Philip Ruffat have joined BTIG's Futures and Commodities Group as Managing Directors.
BTIG LLC announced the appointments of Evan Pfeuffer to managing director and David Lenahan to director in its global portfolio and exchange-traded fund trading business. Previously, Pfeuffer was director and head of electronic market making at Credit Suisse. BTIG, LLC announced two senior hires within its Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities division. Based in Chicago, Holly Liss, CMT, and Philip Ruffat have joined BTIG's Futures and Commodities Group as Managing Directors.