For the hepatitis B component, following vaccination with the hepatitis B vaccine, protection has been shown to last for at least 15 years. Some patients may have a reduced response to the vaccine, or a reduced duration of protection due to concomitant disease, medical conditions or medications. A rapid schedule of three injections given at 0, 7 and 21 days may be an option when travel is anticipated within one month after initiating the vaccination course and where insufficient time is available for the standard schedule.
Vaccination with the full, two-dose series of Hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. Hepatitis A vaccine has been licensed in the United States for use in persons 12 months of age and older. 1 IG is indicated for persons at increased risk of severe or fatal hepatitis A infection. 2  These persons include adults older than 40 years of age, particularly adults 75 years and older, persons with chronic liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis), and those who are immunocompromised.
· just now. Report Abuse. I saw in the comments that someone said the vaccine lasts...as long as you are living, Im sorry but this is simply untrue. I had the combination A & B Vaccine in 2004, got the entire round of 3 shots, returned 6 months after shot 3 and got the hepatitis panel to show if they had taken effect. . Report Abuse. Twinrix lasts as long as your living. Medically speaking, it will not matter if you pick up the series with the second injection or if you restart the series. My advice would be to finish with the second dose then get the thrid to finish
1 For healthy persons aged 12 months–40 years, single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine at the age-appropriate dose is preferred to IG because of the vaccine’s advantages, including long-term protection and ease of administration, as well as the equivalent efficacy of vaccine to IG. 1 IG is indicated for persons at increased risk of severe or fatal hepatitis A infection. 2  These persons include adults older than 40 years of age, particularly adults 75 years and older, persons with chronic liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis), and those who are immunocompromised.
How It Works. Twinrix is a vaccine that provides active immunity against both the hepatitis A and hepatitis B viruses. It is given in a series of 3 injections on the same schedule as the hepatitis B vaccine: an initial dose followed by doses at 1 month and 6 months. It can also be given in 4 doses, with the initial dose followed by doses at 7 days, 21 to 30 days, and 12 months.
How It Works. Twinrix is a vaccine that provides active immunity against both the hepatitis A and hepatitis B viruses. It is given in a series of 3 injections on the same schedule as the hepatitis B vaccine: an initial dose followed by doses at 1 month and 6 months. It can also be given in 4 doses, with the initial dose followed by doses at 7 days, 21 to 30 days, and 12 months. How Well It Works. In clinical trials, 1 month after the last dose, 100% of people were immune to hepatitis A, while 99.7% were immune to hepatitis B. But in practice, immunity may not approach these levels. Hepatitis B vaccine usually does not provide immunity for more than 95% to 97% of people.
The alternate dosing schedule, for children and adolescents only (ages 1 to 15 years), consists of two doses of Twinrix®. The first dose is administered at the elected date and the second between six and twelve months after the first dose. A rapid schedule of three injections given at 0, 7 and 21 days may be an option when travel is anticipated within one month after initiating the vaccination course and where insufficient time is available for the standard schedule.
I’ve already had at least one vaccine dose. If you’ve had your first Twinrix vaccine dose, you will need 2 more injections to complete the series (1 month and 6 months after your first dose, according to the standard schedule). It’s very important to get all 3 vaccine doses
Yes. For children and adolescents aged 1-18, the standard schedule uses the Twinrix Junior vaccine and consists of 3 vaccine doses: you choose the date for Vaccine Dose #1, #2 is 1 month after the first and #3 is 6 months after the first. If you’ve had your first Twinrix vaccine dose, you will need 2 more injections to complete the series (1 month and 6 months after your first dose, according to the standard schedule).