Pay by Experience Level for Credit Analyst. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. A credit analyst looks at all past credit purchases and, based on their findings, decides if a person or a corporation is worthy to receive a loan. The majority of credit analysts have a Bachelor's degree in mathematics, business, economics, or accounting.
(United Kingdom). A Credit Analyst earns an average salary of £33,859 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 10 years in this career. For the first five to ten years in this position, salary increases modestly, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. £22,092 - £51,410
The annual salary for someone with the job title Commercial Credit Analyst I may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Commercial Credit Analyst I that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Commercial Credit Analyst I are expected to make less than the median.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Credit Analyst I in the United States is $46,709, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Credit Analyst I in the United States are expected to make less than $46,709. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Credit Analyst I that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Credit Analyst I are expected to make less than the median.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Commercial Credit Analyst I in the United States is $43,578, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Commercial Credit Analyst I in the United States are expected to make less than $43,578. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Commercial Credit Analyst I that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Commercial Credit Analyst I are expected to make less than the median.
Average Credit Analyst salaries for job postings nationwide are 6% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
(United States). The average salary for a Credit Analyst is $46,808 per year. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. Skills that are associated with high pay for this job are Financial Modeling and Business Analysis. For the first five to ten years in this position, salary increases modestly, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. $34,228 - $67,517. A credit analyst looks at all past credit purchases and, based on their findings, decides if a person or a corporation is worthy to receive a loan. The majority of credit analysts have a Bachelor's degree in mathematics, business, economics, or accounting.
Average Commercial Credit Analyst salaries for job postings nationwide are 17% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 