Optimal Temperature. Pea plants grow well in moist, cool soil and thrive optimally in regions with moderate and cool weather. The optimum germination for peas is 45 degrees Fahrenheit. Peas as among the earliest spring crops that germinate best when soil temperatures are at least 45 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Warm-Season Vegetables. Warm-season vegetables germinate once the soil reaches 60 degrees F. Plants may become stunted if air temperatures stay below 55 degrees F for several days in a row. They include vegetable seeds such as beans (Phaseolus vulgaris), corn (Zea mays), cucumbers (Cucumis sativus) and squash (Cucurbita spp.)
Use A Soil Thermometer. For cool season vegetables and for warm season vegetables, one of the best tools you can own is soil thermometer, because soil temperature is the best indicator of when to plant each type of vegetable, no matter what climate zone you live in.
Cool-season vegetables require cool soils to germinate and grow. They often diminish in quality once soil and air temperatures grow warm. Among the earliest seeds into the garden each year, they include plants such as arugula (Eruca sativa), broccoli (Brassica oleracea), lettuce (Lactuca sativa var. Warm-season vegetables germinate once the soil reaches 60 degrees F. Plants may become stunted if air temperatures stay below 55 degrees F for several days in a row.
1 It is important that peas be planted in well-drained soil. 2  A raised bed garden is a good place to plant peas, as raised bed garden soil temperatures are a few degrees warmer than the ground temperature. 3  Raised bed gardens are also usually well-drained, which is very helpful in rainy climates. 1 However, the soil temperature should be 45 to 50 degrees F. 2  Peas can be planted outdoors 6 weeks before the last expected frost date. 3  Some gardeners plant their peas as early as February, and cover the crop with perforated plastic.
Soil Temperatures. The ideal soil temperature for pea germination 75 degrees Fahrenheit with an outdoor temperature of 55 to 70 F. Peas germinate more slowly when planted in cooler soil temperatures. Amend the soil with rotted manure or compost, turning the soil with a spade at a depth of 10 to 12 inches. If the planting area has poor soil, poor drainage or is heavy clay soil, you can plant the peas in a raised bed, and apply a low-nitrogen fertilizer, such as a 5-10-10, to the planting bed.
1 Peas can be planted as soon as the ground is unfrozen, and ready to work. 2  However, the soil temperature should be 45 to 50 degrees F. 3  Peas can be planted outdoors 6 weeks before the last expected frost date. 4  Some gardeners plant their peas as early as February, and cover the crop with perforated plastic. 1 However, the soil temperature should be 45 to 50 degrees F. 2  Peas can be planted outdoors 6 weeks before the last expected frost date. 3
When to Plant Peas--Soil Temperature. 1  Peas can be planted as soon as the ground is unfrozen, and ready to work. 2  However, the soil temperature should be 45 to 50 degrees F. 3  Peas can be planted outdoors 6 weeks before the last expected frost date. 1 However, the soil temperature should be 45 to 50 degrees F. 2  Peas can be planted outdoors 6 weeks before the last expected frost date. 3  Some gardeners plant their peas as early as February, and cover the crop with perforated plastic.
CORVALLIS, Ore. — A soil thermometer is a gardener's best friend as spring approaches and it's time to plant cool-season vegetables such as peas, kale, fava beans and radishes. With a thermometer, no guess work is needed. Soil temperature is the best indicator of when to plant each type of vegetable, no matter what climate zone you live in, said Annie Chozinski, Oregon State University vegetable researcher. But watch weather forecasts — beans will not tolerate frost and may have to be planted twice if the temperature goes below freezing. Wait until the soil warms to above 70 degrees to plant warm-season vegetables such as tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, cucumbers, squash, corn and melons. It can take several weeks for tomatoes, eggplant and peppers to germinate in the garden