Diffen › Science › Geology. A mineral is a naturally-occurring substance formed through geological processes that has a characteristic chemical composition, a highly ordered atomic structure and specific physical properties. A rock is a naturally occurring aggregate of minerals and/or mineraloids. Rocks do not have a definite chemical composition. 
A mineral is a naturally occurring, inorganic solid with a definite chemical composition and a crystalline structure formed by geological processes. A rock is an aggregate of one or more minerals whereas a rock may also include organic remains and mineraloids. For example, limestone is a sedimentary rock composed almost entirely of the mineral calcite. Other rocks contain many minerals, and the specific minerals in a rock can vary widely. Some minerals, like quartz, mica or feldspar are common, while others have been found in only one or two locations worldwide.
For example, a sedimentary rock form is limestone that is composed only of the mineral calcite. Main rocks on earth contain minerals like magnetite, quartz, feldspar, mica, epidote etc. But more than half of the mineral types classified in geological studies are considered rare. A rock can also contain organic remains and mineraloids apart from regular mineral formations. There are some rocks that may include just one mineral formation though. The commercial value of minerals is immense and rocks are mined to extract these minerals.
Enjoy our wide range of fun facts and information about different types of rocks and minerals for kids. Learn what rocks and minerals are, what the difference is, examples of rocks and minerals, the difference between igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic rocks, Mohs scale of hardness and much more. Read on and have fun finding out about rocks and minerals. 
A rock is composed of combinations of minerals, each mineral having its own chemical formula and crystalline structure. Minerals are composed of an element or combination of elements. A rock is combinations of minerals and either has to be an igneous, metamorphic, or sedimentary rock. A mineral is a solid that was formed in nature, has a definite chemical … makeup, and has a crystal
Such rocks are known as ores and the residue of the rock after the mineral has been extracted is called tailing. The classification of rocks also depends on their mineral and chemical composition, texture and the process of formation. Rocks are therefore classified as igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. A rock can also contain organic remains and mineraloids apart from regular mineral formations. There are some rocks that may include just one mineral formation though. The commercial value of minerals is immense and rocks are mined to extract these minerals.
Rock vs Mineral. A mineral is a solid formation that occurs naturally in the earth while a rock is a solid combination of more than one mineral formations which is also occurring naturally. A mineral has a unique chemical composition and is necessarily defined by its crystalline structure and shape. A rock can also contain organic remains and mineraloids apart from regular mineral formations. There are some rocks that may include just one mineral formation though. The commercial value of minerals is immense and rocks are mined to extract these minerals.
Rocks are formed from minerals or mineroids solidified into one. A rock could be made up of either one or more than one minerals combined together. For example, the most common rock granite is a combination of quartz, feldspar and biotite minerals. The Earth’s crust is also known as a rock. Rocks are classified based upon various characteristics such as mineral and chemical composition, texture and permeability. Rocks are made up of one or more minerals or mineraloids. Have a definite chemical composition; minerals are inorganic compounds. Characteristics. Rocks are characterized by
Minerals     are homogeneous, naturally occurring, inorganic solids. Each mineral has a definite chemical composition and a characteristic crystalline structure. … A mineral may be a single element such as copper (Cu) or gold (Au), or it may be a compound made up of a number of elements. A rock is combinations of minerals and either has to be an igneous, metamorphic, or sedimentary rock. A mineral is a solid that was formed in nature, has a definite chemical … makeup, and has a crystal