Say, for example, that your deductible is $1,000 and you it’s determined that you’re 20% at fault, you must pay your insurance company $1,000. That being said, you can go after the person with 80% of the responsibility and tray to recover the other $800.
This means that the insurance company can expect to pay out a lower amount on the claim. Some drivers find that comprehensive coverage is less expensive than collision coverage, depending on the type of car they drive and a variety of other factors.
For example, if you set your deductible at $1,000 and your car sustains damages totaling $1,800, you will pay $1,000 and your insurance company will pay $800. Deductibles are normally due per incident, so you will have to pay your deductible amount out every time you make a comprehensive claim.
For this reason you may choose to carry a lower comprehensive deductible than what you select for your collision deductible. A lower comprehensive deductible means you will pay less out of pocket for claims due to vandalism, theft or any other non-collision incident.
Without comprehensive coverage, you cannot make a car insurance claim if your vehicle receives damage that is considered “other than collision” damage by your insurer.
Strong vehicle coverage: Amica auto insurance offers both comprehensive and collision coverage for your car. Collision coverage protects against damage caused in an accident while comprehensive takes care of damage caused by non-accident-related events, such as fire or vandalism.
Understanding Collision Deductibles. Collision coverage comes with a deductible. This means you'll pay out of pocket for some of the damage, and any amount after that is typically covered up to the actual cash value of your car. Typical deductibles are between $0 and $1,000. Generally, the higher your deductible, the lower your premium.
If you need to file a claim against your car insurance, and you have a deductible of $1,000, this is the amount you’ll need to pay in order to process the claim. Then your insurance company pays the difference between your deductible and the total amount for repairs, up to the limit of your policy.