Meter. Meter is the rhythm of a ballad. It describes where the emphasis is placed--what words are emphasized, and what words aren't. Almost all ballads have verses consisting of four or six lines, and use one of two basic Meters: 4-3-4-3 or 4-4-4-4. Here's an example of the 4-3-4-3 meter. Try speaking the verse out loud: 
Form A poem that follows a certain pattern-rhyme scheme or meter-or has a certain topic/focus, or all of the above. Haiku, limericks, sonnets, and sestinas are all forms of poetry that use conventional arrangements of meter and rhyme patterns. Flyting a type of poetry that has a rhyme scheme and a meter and that heaps abuse on a person, similar to a lampoon; from the Old English and Old Norwegian folk contests in which two contenders heaped verbal abuse on each other.
A/B/C/B Rhyme Scheme. Another common rhyme scheme for ballads is a pattern where only the second and fourth lines of each stanza rhyme. Samuel Taylor Coleridge's The Rime of the Ancient Mariner follows this structure: It is an ancient mariner (a) And he stoppeth one of three.
Rhyme Scheme. A rhyme scheme is a consistent pattern of rhymes throughout a poem. The scheme used in ballad meter is one where the second and fourth lines rhyme. The pattern can be represented as: A-B-C-B, where each B represents a rhyming line.
is a type of poem with a ryme. Rhyme scheme is the regular pattern of rhyming words in a poem or stanza. Letters are assigned to the last word of each line of a poem to help d … ecipher a poem's rhyme scheme.
a ballad is a poem which includes a story, chorus, rhythm, shape and rhyme. The definition of story is an account of a real or imaginary event/the plot or succession of inci … dents of a novel, poem, drama. In a ballad you have to have a story this includes characters and what the ballad is about. 
1 For this type of poem, you can pick your own rhyme scheme. 2  Most commonly, though, there are four groups or stanzas, of three lines with an AAB rhyme scheme where the first two lines rhyme and the third line is different. 3  Something that makes a ballad a unique type of poem is that they have choruses. 1 Something that makes a ballad a unique type of poem is that they have choruses. 2  Typically, the third line of each stanza is the chorus, so you need to make sure that line is something that is relevant throughout the entire story, because it will be repeated many times.
An important feature of any ballad in print is its meter. “Ballad measure,” sometimes called “ballad stanza” or “ballad meter,” can be strictly defined as four-line stanzas usually rhyming abcb with the first and third lines carrying four accented syllables and the second and fourth carrying three. 
A rhyme scheme is the pattern of rhymes at the end of each line of a poem or song. It is usually referred to by using letters to indicate which lines rhyme; lines designated with the same letter all rhyme with each other. Rhyme scheme is as integral to the structure of a text as rhythm, meter and length of phrase. Yet the way this happens seems more ambiguous than the way rhythm shapes a text, for example