Cheery nemesias glow with color in cool conditions. Extended, cool summers and mild winters offer conditions ideal for nemesia (Nemesia spp.) Tidy, colorful nemesias are perennial in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 and 10, and annuals elsewhere. With sporadic shearing, the 10- to 18-inch plants bloom from spring to fall. 
Half Hardy Annuals and Perennials, Nemesia Strumoso. Here is a trouble free, cool weather plant, that you will certainly want to include in your flower garden this year! Cheery Nemesia is a brightly colored plant with striking flower clusters. Solid and bi-color flowers include orange, red, pink, yellow and white. 
Nemesia Raspberries and Cream An evergreen perennial with small, green leaves. Height 30cm, spread 30cm. Slightly fragrant, red-purple and white bicolour flowers with a yellow eye are produced from April to October. Grows in most soils in sun or part shade. Nemesia Fleurie Blue An evergreen perennial with small, green leaves. Height 25cm, spread 25cm. Slightly fragrant, purple flowers with yellow eyes are produced from April to October. Grows in most soils in sun or part shade. May be grown in a container. Fairly hardy if planted in a sheltered spot.
Nemesia Amelie (Fleurame) An evergreen perennial with small, green leaves. Height 30cm, spread 30cm. Fragrant, lilac-pink flowers with a yellow eye are produced from April to October. Grows in most soils in sun or part shade, may be grown in a container. Fairly hardy if planted in a sheltered spot. Nemesia Fleurie Blue An evergreen perennial with small, green leaves. Height 25cm, spread 25cm. Slightly fragrant, purple flowers with yellow eyes are produced from April to October. Grows in most soils in sun or part shade. May be grown in a container. Fairly hardy if planted in a sheltered spot.
Nemesia Berries and Cream An evergreen perennial with small green leaves. Height 30cm, spread 30cm. Slightly fragrant purple and white flowers with a yellow eye are produced from April to October. Grows in most soils in sun or part shade. Nemesia Fleurie Blue An evergreen perennial with small, green leaves. Height 25cm, spread 25cm. Slightly fragrant, purple flowers with yellow eyes are produced from April to October. Grows in most soils in sun or part shade. May be grown in a container. Fairly hardy if planted in a sheltered spot.
Family: Scrophulariaceae Common names: Mauve nemesia (E) Wildeleeubekkie (A). This dainty, long-flowering perennial is a charming addition to the summer garden, but what is commonly sold in nurseries as Nemesia fruticans may be due for a name change. The name Nemesia is derived from the name Nemesion, the generic name of a similar plant
The mauve nemesia is a perennial that is used mostly as an annual. It grows up to 600 mm in height. It has many slender erect stems which branch freely, emerging from a woody taproot. Stems have numerous, narrow, serrated leaves which are denser near the base of the stem. The leaves are fresh green and shiny. This dainty, long-flowering perennial is a charming addition to the summer garden, but what is commonly sold in nurseries as Nemesia fruticans may be due for a name change.