An operational definition, when applied to data collection, is a clear, concise detailed definition of a measure. The need for operational definitions is fundamental when collecting all types of data. It is easy to assume that those collecting the data understand what and how to complete the task. However, people have different opinions and views, and these will affect the data collection. The only way to ensure consistent data collection is by means of a detailed operational definition that eliminates ambiguity.
Operational definition. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An operational definition is a result of the process of operationalization and is used to define something (e.g. a variable, term, or object) in terms of a process (or set of validation tests) needed to determine its existence, duration, and quantity. Operational definitions are also used to define system states in terms of a specific, publicly accessible process of preparation or validation testing, which is repeatable at will.
2. One can use any operational definitions but should use operational definitions similar to those in use and which are consistent with historical reference avoids initial struggle. 3. What about brave = leaving the house in the morning without a cup of coffee. OPERATIONAL DEFINITIONS, VARIABLES, AND CONSTRUCTS. Good definitions in science are used so others can better understand research methods, findings and interpretations. A. Dictionary definitions provide only a set of synonymous terms for a term which may have several possible referents (ie.
Operational Definition – A definition in terms of the operations used to produce and measure a phenomenon. It is important to define a behavior in clear and concise terms so that it can be accurately measured, assessed and treated by a number of individuals across a variety of environments. 
Clarity The definition is so clear that another person unfamiliar with the behavior could measure it consistently.A tantrum is defined as screaming, shouting, whining, stomping feet, throwing things, or slamming doors. Count each time the person seems depressed. Interobserver Agreement Two people who independently observe the same behavior and record the information in the same way to assess the extent to which observers are consistently recording the occurrence of a behavior. Inconsistent measurement can add variability making data making it more difficult to interpret.
An example of operational definition of the term weight of an object, operationalized to a degree, would be the following: weight is the numbers that appear when that object is placed on a weighing scale . Operational definitions are also used to define system states in terms of a specific, publicly accessible process of preparation or validation testing, which is repeatable at will.
The most operational definition is a process for identification of an object by distinguishing it from its background of empirical experience. The binary version produces either the result that the object exists, or that it doesn't, in the experiential field to which it is applied. Operational definitions are also used to define system states in terms of a specific, publicly accessible process of preparation or validation testing, which is repeatable at will.
An operational definition is critical for success in writing IEP goals, especially behavioral goals. It is also vital to define a target behavior for both a Functional Behavior Analysis (FBA) and a Behavior Intervention Program (BIP) . An operational definition describes the behavior in terms of what you see. It is an explicit definition that two or more disinterested observers would be able to identify. Academic goals should also be operationally defined: you define the academic behavior the child should exhibit. 
Operational Definitions. An operational definition is a detailed specification of how one would go about measuring a given variable. Operational definitions can range from very simple and straightforward to quite complex, depending on the nature of the variable and the needs of the researcher. Now this is a problem that has challenged researchers for years, and many fine operational definitions of anxiety are already available for our use. For the sake of this exercise, however, we will assume that we have to develop our own measure without benefit of much of this existing research.