Keep your cake in the freezer within certain time limits. A cake will generally freeze well for a few months, but not more than that. Whilst freezing initially retains the moisture of a pre-baked cake, cakes will tend to dry out after two months of freezing and you can expect the flavor to change at around four months. If your cake doesn't have fat (like fat-free cakes), it won't freeze well and you should avoid putting it in the freezer. 3. Select the right wrapping to freeze it in. Your cake has to be protected from freezer condensation, so using a moisture-proof wrapping is key to preserve your cake's flavor and texture.
Lighter fruit cakes can be made 3-5 days in advance (the more fruit the longer on that scale but 3 is pretty safe) and can usually be stored iced. Bread cakes (like banana bread) will last 3 days. Sponge/cupcakes/pound cake are best within 2-3 days and iced as late as you have time to. Most cakes will freeze and keep fine if prepared properly-obviously they will not have the same fresh baked attributes that a freshly baked cake would bring to the party, but it should still taste nicely. 1  Wait for the cake(s) to be completely cooled before preparing them to be frozen
Frosted cakes can be frozen in a tightly covered plastic container. Or, place cake in freezer until frosting is frozen. Then wrap tightly in plastic wrap or foil and freeze up to 3 months. Cooked, boiled or fruit frostings and fillings don’t freeze as well. Place layer cakes in a box or cake container to prevent crushing, then wrap the box in foil or plastic wrap before freezing. Foam cakes may be filled or frosted with whipped cream or whipped topping before freezing. Frosted cakes may be stored in the freezer up to 3 months.
Hope this helps. I take the cakes out two days ahead. For an example, if you need the cake for saturday, take the cakes out thursday night and put them in the fridge. Then friday morning take them out from the fridge and leave them on the counter to come to room ttemperature. Then you can proceed as you normaly would. I want to make a cake early, so the day that I need to decorate it, it won't take me as long, but I've never frozen a cake before. This time it will be a 6 and 9 round cake. Can anyone give me any ideas/pointers as to what is the best way to do this, so my cakes are still moist when it's time to eat it. Thanks!
Different cakes freeze better or worse than others, it completely depends on the cake. But freezing might be unnecessary altogether. Most cakes are better not frozen if it's only going to be frozen for shorter than the times below. Most cakes will freeze and keep fine if prepared properly-obviously they will not have the same fresh baked attributes that a freshly baked cake would bring to the party, but it should still taste nicely. 1  Wait for the cake(s) to be completely cooled before preparing them to be frozen
Evoir Posted 29 Mar 2013, 10:32am. post #2 of 11. AIt depends a bit on how airy the cake structure is. A light sponge cake I'd not freeze for more than a month, a dense mud cake probably 3 months, a fruit cake 6 months. Ensure you wrap it, excluding all the air, in three layers of cling film, then 2 freezer bags. I also freeze spare cakes on a cardboard round or square to maintain its shape
Freezer. 1 year. Tips. 1  Fruit cake may be kept at room temperature for up to one month; cover with foil or plastic wrap or place in plastic bag to prevent drying out. 2  Fruit cake will keep for an additional 6 months in the refrigerator, covered with foil or plastic wrap or placed in a plastic bag. 1
Let your cake cool. Before you can freeze your cake for later consumption, you must let it cool. So if you've just baked a cake, put it aside for about three hours. Lightly place your hand on it to make sure it's cool to the touch. If your cake doesn't have fat (like fat-free cakes), it won't freeze well and you should avoid putting it in the freezer. 3. Select the right wrapping to freeze it in. Your cake has to be protected from freezer condensation, so using a moisture-proof wrapping is key to preserve your cake's flavor and texture.