General Information Edit. Players may choose to request other nations to become their protectorate in the diplomacy screen. Under normal circumstances, a faction cannot ask another faction which is already a protectorate to become a protectorate. A protectorate is a faction under the protection of another faction. Players may choose to request other nations to become their protectorate in the diplomacy screen.
Protectorate. a form of colonial dependency in which by a special international agreement one state turns over the conduct of its foreign relations to another state. At the same time the protected state receives an adviser or resident on domestic affairs, retaining only a certain amount of autonomy. 
Protectorate. Protectorate, in English history, name given to the English government from 1653 to 1659. Following the English civil war and the execution of Charles I, England was declared (1649) a commonwealth under the rule of the Rump Parliament. See S. R. Gardiner, History of the Commonwealth and Protectorate (4 vol., 1903, repr. 1965); C. Firth, The Last Years of the Protectorate (2 vol., 1909; repr. 1964); I. Roots, Commonwealth and Protectorate: The English Civil War and Its Aftermath (1966). The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, 6th ed.
The founding of the Protectorate. 16 December 2003 sees the 350th anniversary of the establishment of the Protectorate. The new form of government founded on 16 December 1653 proved to be the most durable and stable regime of the entire republican or commonwealth period (1649-60). 
Protectorate. A form of international guardianship that arises under International Law when a weaker state surrenders by treaty the management of some or all of its international affairs to a stronger state. 
Medieval: Total War. From the First Crusade in 1095 to the fall of Constantinople in 1453, Medieval Total War lets you engage in real-time... 1  Empires: Dawn of the Modern WorldFrom the Medieval Age to World War II, lead your nation to global domination. 2  In Empires: Dawn of the Modern World, ... 
Protectorate. a form of colonial dependency in which by a special international agreement one state turns over the conduct of its foreign relations to another state. At the same time the protected state receives an adviser or resident on domestic affairs, retaining only a certain amount of autonomy. 
protectorate noun [C]. › a ​country that is ​generally ​controlled and ​defended by a more ​powerful ​country. (Definition of protectorate from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 