Bulgogi is the most popular variety of Korean barbecue. Before cooking, the meat is marinated with a mixture of soy sauce, sugar, sesame oil, garlic, and pepper. It is traditionally cooked using gridirons or perforated dome griddles that sit on braziers, but pan-cooking has become common, as well. The term Korean barbecue refers to the Korean method of roasting beef, pork, chicken, or other types of meat.
There's more to Korean food than just beef, of course, but it's a great jumping off point for Texans eager to explore a cuisine that's exploding on the national scene. Kimchi -- the fermented cabbage that's eaten for breakfast, lunch and dinner in Korea -- has been topping dishes from cheese fries to ramen. Soju is another reason going out for Korean food can be such a fun time. This is the Korean version of vodka, simply stated. It's made from rice and is slightly sweeter, but goes down with the same initial burn. In the same way that vodka is enjoyed in places like Russia or Poland, soju is consumed throughout your meal.
Traditional and Classic Korean Recipes. A typical Korean meal consists of a bowl of rice, a bowl of soup or stew, and some side dishes as accompaniment. But within that basic structure, there is deliciously wide variation for every season and palate. 
Bulgogi (Marinated Beef Barbecue). A juicy, savory dish of grilled marinated beef, bulgogi is one of the most popular Korean meat dishes throughout the world that has been ranked as the 23rd most delicious foods in the world according to CNN Travel’s reader’s poll in 2011. Kimchi (Fermented Vegetable). One of the oldest and probably the most essential plate in Korean cuisine, kimchi is a spicy and sour dish of fermented vegetables. It is prepared with various kinds of ingredients, but the most common main ingredient is cabbage.
Originating from ancient agricultural and nomadic traditions in the Korean peninsula and southern Manchuria, Korean cuisine has evolved through a complex interaction of the natural environment and different cultural trends. Korean cuisine is largely based on rice, vegetables, and meats. Traditional Korean meals are noted for the number of side dishes (banchan) that accompany steam-cooked short-grain rice. Ingredients and dishes vary by province. Many regional dishes have become national, and dishes that were once regional have proliferated in different variations across the country. The Korean royal court cuisine once brought all of the unique regional specialties together for the royal family.
2. Kimchi (김치). Dating to the Shilla Dynasty (approximately 2,000 years ago), kimchi is the beloved spicy sidekick at every Korean table. It's made by salting and preserving fermented cabbage in a bed of pepper, garlic, ginger and scallion. 1.Hangover stew (해장국). Given Korea’s dedicated drinking culture, it’s not surprising that Korea’s hangover-curing culture is equally as developed, from pre-drinking drinks to post-drinking drinks to a glorious array of spicy and steamy stews and soups.
V isitors to Korea will discover a wide array of unique and delicious food. Korea was once a primarily agricultural nation, and since ancient times rice has been cultivated as Koreans' staple food. These days Korean cuisine also contains a large variety of meat and fish dishes along with wild greens and vegetables. Namul consists of vegetables of wild greens, which have been slightly boiled or fried, and mixed with salt, soy sauce, sesame salt, sesame oil, garlic, onions, and other spices. Jeotga l is a very salty food made from naturally preserved fish, shellfish, shrimp, oysters, fish roe, intestines and other ingredient
Mul naengmyeon, or “water” naengmyeon, hailing from North Korea’s Pyeongyang, consists of buckwheat noodles in a tangy meat or kimchi broth, topped with slivers of radish, cucumber, and egg, and seasoned with vinegar and Korean mustard (gyeoja). 1.Hangover stew (해장국). Given Korea’s dedicated drinking culture, it’s not surprising that Korea’s hangover-curing culture is equally as developed, from pre-drinking drinks to post-drinking drinks to a glorious array of spicy and steamy stews and soups.
A typical Korean meal (pepkan) consists of the staple food Rice (bap) along with soup and three or more complementary side dishes (pan cha). The number of side dishes on the table decides the type of traditional table setting. A typical Korean family prepares 5-7 dishes. Korean food derives its flavor and taste from combinations of sesame oil, soy sauce, soybean paste, garlic, ginger and the all-important, kim-chi. Take a tour of Korean food typical dishes and how they are served.