Food Groups. 1  Bread, rice, potatoes, pasta and other starchy foods. 2  Fruit and vegetables. 3  Milk and dairy foods. 4  Meat, fish, eggs, beans and other non-dairy sources of protein. 5  Foods and drinks high in fat and/or sugar. What to do: 1  Eat lots of these foods; they should form the largest part of any meal. 2  Include at least one food from this group at each meal. 3  They can also make a healthy snack. 4  The amount each person needs of these foods varies with age, sex and physical activity.
The honey badger (Mellivora capensis), also known as the ratel (/ˈreɪtəl/ or /ˈrɑːtəl/), is a species of mustelid native to Africa, Southwest Asia, and the Indian subcontinent. Despite its name, the honey badger does not closely resemble other badger species; instead, it bears more anatomical similarities to weasels. 
Added Sugars. On the U.S. government's food pyramid, My Pyramid, honey is considered an added sugar. Added sugars are not found naturally in foods, as in the case of fruit and milk, but are added to foods and drinks. It provides enzymes, vitamins and minerals and is thought to reduce allergies if you have local honey. However, your body reacts the same way to honey, so there is really no difference. Just like table sugar, honey increases your blood sugar, increases your risk of dental caries and adds calories to your diet.
The meat group is one of the major compacted food groups in the food guide pyramid. Many of the same nutrients found in meat can also be found in foods like eggs, dry beans, and nuts, such foods are typically placed in the same category as meats, as meat alternatives. 
So honey belongs to the sugary goop group of foodstuffs? ― Aw naw, no' Annoni oan noo an' aw (Tom D.), Tuesday, 4 August 2009 17:08 (6 years ago) Permalink. No no I just read up on this. The botulism bacteria is in the soil and dust, it's just in such minute quantities that adults are totally unbothered by it. Yeah you can get botulism from honey, but only when it has been contaminated with, y'know, botulism bacteria. Ain't the honey's fault (or the bees'). ― quincie, Tuesday, 4 August 2009 15:59 (6 years ago) Permalink. i've always wanted to give honey to an infant in spite of the warning on the back label.
No food group. It's not food and it doesn't contain calories. It's not a fruit, nor a grain, not a vegetable, not meat, dairy, or fats/oils/sweets. It's it's own food group an … d you should be consuming about half your body weight in ounces of water each day. So if you weigh 128 lbs. 128/2 = 64 ounces, so you should be drinking a gallon of water throughout the way
Foods from the Grains group also contain carbohydrates, which give our bodies energy. Some foods found in the Grains group are bread, buns, rolls, bagels, ready-to-eat cereal, oatmeal, pasta, rice, corn bread, grits, pizza crust, crackers, tortillas, pretzels, popcorn, biscuits, sweet rolls, donuts, cookies and cake. Smart Tips for the Grains Group: 1  Eat a bowl of oatmeal. Some foods found in the Fruits group are apples, bananas, strawberries, grapes, watermelon, oranges, peaches, pears, raisins, dried apricots, applesauce, fruit cocktail, canned peaches, orange juice and apple juice.