Quadro is a brand of graphics processing units (GPUs) designed by Nvidia. They are designed to accelerate CAD (computer-aided design) and DCC (digital content creation), and are therefore usually featured in workstations (compared to Nvidia's GeForce product line, which specifically targets computer gaming). Quadro Plex consists of a line of external servers for rendering videos. A Quadro Plex contains multiple Quadro FX video cards. A client computer connects to Quadro Plex (using PCI Express ×8 or ×16 interface card with interconnect cable) to initiate rendering. Many of these cards use the same core as the game-and action-oriented GeForce video cards by Nvidia
Answer: A qualified domestic relations order is an order that needs to be included in a divorce settlement agreement when dealing with pension funds. The QDRO establishes your soon-to-be-ex-spouse's legal right to receive a designated percentage of your qualified plan account balance or benefit payments. 1 The number of payments or benefits period covered by the QDRO. 2  Your papers should also specify that a qualified domestic relations order is being established under your state's domestic relations laws and Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code.
New Jersey what is a Quadro Order and how does it work with respect to equitable distribution of pensions? is there any way of getting the money up front? Thanks for your comments. 
The Quadro line of GPU cards emerged in an effort at market segmentation by Nvidia. In introducing Quadro, Nvidia was able to charge a premium for essentially the same graphics hardware in professional markets, and direct resources to properly serve the needs of those markets. Quadro Plex consists of a line of external servers for rendering videos. A Quadro Plex contains multiple Quadro FX video cards. A client computer connects to Quadro Plex (using PCI Express ×8 or ×16 interface card with interconnect cable) to initiate rendering. Many of these cards use the same core as the game-and action-oriented GeForce video cards by Nvidia
DEFINITION of 'Qualified Domestic Relations Order-QDRO '. A type of court order typically found in a divorce agreement that recognizes that the ex-spouse is entitled to receive a predefined portion of the individual's retirement plan. In most cases, the qualified domestic relations order (QDRO) allots 50% of the value of the assets gained from the beginning of the marriage to the time of the divorce to the ex-spouse.
The Quadro Tracker, also known as the Positive Molecular Locator, was a detection device sold by Quadro Corp. of Harleyville, South Carolina between 1993 and 1996. The Texas Department of Public Safety used a Quadro Tracker in a failed attempt to find the body of the murdered 7-year-old Carlin Smith. Police departments in a number of counties, including Jefferson County, Florida and Madison County, Florida also bought the device.
Answer by mann (6). This referes to what is called a qualified domestic relations order. It is typically used in a divorce proceeding in relation to one parties pension or retirement account. The quadro establishes the amount of the retirement account that a spouse is entilled to receive. This legal agreement establishes the percentage that each party will recieve and also the tax liability.