We make ideas happen. Research Associates have the time and resources to dig deep in their research, with the guidance of faculty who are thought leaders in fields ranging from entrepreneurship to finance to organizational behavior. 
Research Associates are scholars and professionals that usually have an advanced degree beyond a Master's degree. Research Associate is an employee of the University or a Research Institute, and may be eligible to receive University / Federal benefits. In contrast to a research assistant, a research associate often has a graduate degree, such as a master's (e.g. Master of Science) or in some cases Master of Engineering or a doctoral degree (e.g.
A research associate is a skilled professional who assists in some form of research program. Often employed by primary researchers, research associates usually have completed a master's degree and may be in the process of finishing doctoral work or have recently finished a PhD program. In the university system, a research associate may also be a professor. Often called in to help with an ongoing study or clinical trial, a research associate can serve as part-time faculty or a guest lecturer.
A Clinical Research Associate (CRA), also called a clinical monitor or trial monitor, is a health-care professional who performs many activities related to medical research, particularly clinical trials. The main function of a Clinical Research Associate is to monitor clinical trials. The CRA may work directly with the sponsor company of a clinical trial, as an independent freelancer or for a Contract Research Organization (CRO).
Ad. In the university system, a research associate may also be a professor. Often called in to help with an ongoing study or clinical trial, a research associate can serve as part-time faculty or a guest lecturer. When hired as an associate and professor, the term of employment may last only as long as the study
DEFINITION of 'Research Associate'. Someone that organizes and plans research, and specializes in finance, economics, equities or accounting. Research associates conduct economic and finance research and analysis.
Ad. To become a clinical research associate, a bachelor’s or master’s degree in a health field or life science is generally required. Alternately, a nursing degree may be acceptable. Two years of experience in pharmaceutical research, medical research, or nursing may also be require