The snare drum is known for its loud crack when a person strikes it with a drum stick or mallet. The depth of the sound varies from snare to snare because of the different techniques and construction qualities of the drum. Some of these qualities include tightness of the head, dimensions, and brand. A typical diameter for snare drums is 14 inches (36 cm). Marching snare drums are deeper in size than snare drums normally used for orchestral or drum kit purposes, often measuring in at a foot long. Orchestral and drum set snare drum shells are about 6 inches (15 cm) deep.
HEAR SNARE EVERYWHERE. Since it all starts with the instrument, let’s do a quick review of the snare drum itself. In addition to the heads and the tuning, the material of the shell and its thickness, size, and depth all play a part in the sound of the snare drum. It’s best to start with the best snare for the tune. You wouldn’t necessarily pick a 13 x 4 brass piccolo drum tuned up tight to get a meaty and monstrous hard-rock snare sound, nor would your first choice be an 8-deep maple snare if you were going for something pert and bright.
In contemporary and/or pop and rock music, where the snare drum is used as a part of a drum set, many of the backbeats and accented notes on the snare drum are played as rim shots, due to the ever-increasing demand for the typical sharp and high-volume sound. A typical diameter for snare drums is 14 inches (36 cm). Marching snare drums are deeper in size than snare drums normally used for orchestral or drum kit purposes, often measuring in at a foot long. Orchestral and drum set snare drum shells are about 6 inches (15 cm) deep.
Once your snare drum has been recorded the fun begins. Regardless of whether your studio is analog or digital the snare drum track is only one component of the final snare drum sound. By itself in a mix it is usually quite dry and boring. It’s what you do to the snare drum that makes it stand out. Your first big decision is the choice of snare drum. Snares made of wood sound different from snares made of metal. Thin-shelled “piccolo” snares sound brighter than deep-dish snares. Discriminating drummers will pay up to $1300 for a Noble & Cooley Classic SS snare drum which comes in three different sizes. At the other end of the scale, my used Tama snare drum cost me about $100
CP, I've used a piccolo snare as my main snare for rock music since 1978. It's my sound. I was laughed at by other players in the late 70's and early 80's for using such a drum for rock. This was at a time when everyone else was using the deepest possible snare drum, tuned real low. Hey Crew, I've been using this Tama Soprano Piccolo snare off and on. (See my previous mystery snare post on it) It's a 3-1/4 x 12. I really am starting to love the sound, pitch, and varied uses of it.
Like piccolo snares, these drums feature nonstandard shell dimensions. Common soprano snare shells measure between 5″ and 7″ deep and 10″ or 12″ in diameter. Generally these drums have a high-pitched sound with more body than what you get from a piccolo. Popcorn snares often come in shallower sizes. Generally you’ll tune the snare-side head for snare response and the top head for feel and pitch. Tune the tension rods on either side of the snare beds a half turn looser than the rest of the head for the best snare response. Tune and muffle the top head to taste while keeping the pitch at all lugs the same.
The tension of the top head fine-tunes the overall sound and affects the snare response as well as the “vibe” of the drum. Tuning it up tabletop tight gives you that snappy crack, and tuning it looser gives the snare drum a fatter tone; experiment to get what you’re after for the tune. It’s best to start with the best snare for the tune. You wouldn’t necessarily pick a 13 x 4 brass piccolo drum tuned up tight to get a meaty and monstrous hard-rock snare sound, nor would your first choice be an 8-deep maple snare if you were going for something pert and bright.
Pearl has just what you need. Use the S1330B Piccolo Snare and forget about being lost in the mix-no matter how loud your surroundings may be. This steel-shell piccolo snare features a 3 depth and a 13 width, and it works perfectly as either a main snare or as an effective second effects snare. 