1 Phytochemicals with antioxidant activity: allyl sulfides (onions, leeks, garlic), carotenoids (fruits, carrots), flavonoids (fruits, vegetables), polyphenols (tea, grapes). 2  Hormonal action-Isoflavones, found in soy, imitate human estrogens and help to reduce menopausal symptoms and osteoporosis. 1 Capsaicin, found in hot peppers, protects DNA from carcinogens. 2  Anti-bacterial effect-The phytochemical allicin from garlic has anti-bacterial properties. 3  Physical action-Some phytochemicals bind physically to cell walls thereby preventing the adhesion of pathogens to human cell walls.
The term phytochemicals is a broad name for a wide variety of compounds produced by plants. They’re found in fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, and other plants. Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body. Some researchers estimate there are up to 4,000 phytochemicals! Scientists have identified thousands of them, although only a small fraction of phytochemicals have been studied closely.
Chances are you've eaten phytochemicals. Don't be alarmed -- they're not toxic agents produced by some huge chemical company, as the name might suggest. Phytochemicals are natural compounds found in the fruits and vegetables we eat (or should eat) every day. 
Plant foods contain thousands of natural chemicals. These are called phytonutrients or phytochemicals.Phyto refers to the Greek word for plant. These chemicals help protect plants from germs, fungi, bugs, and other threats. Fruits and vegetables contain phytonutrients. Other plant-based foods also contain phytonutrients, such as: 1  Whole grains. 2  Nuts. 3  Beans.
Phytonutrients (also referred to as phytochemicals) are compounds found in plants. They serve various functions in plants, helping to protect the plant's vitality. For example, some phytonutrients protect the plant from UV radiation while others protect it from insect attack. 
These are some possible actions: Foods containing phytochemicals are already part of our daily diet. In fact, most foods contain phytochemicals except for some refined foods such as sugar or alcohol. Some foods, such as whole grains, vegetables, beans, fruits and herbs, contain many phytochemicals. The easiest way to get more phytochemicals is to eat more fruit (blueberries, cranberries, cherries, apple,...) and vegetables (cauliflower, cabbage, carrots, broccoli,...). 1 Capsaicin, found in hot peppers, protects DNA from carcinogens. 2  Anti-bacterial effect-The phytochemical allicin from garlic has anti-bacterial properties. 3  Physical action-Some phytochemicals bind physically to cell walls thereby preventing the adhesion of pathogens to human cell walls.
Save as Favorite. Phytochemicals are compounds that are produced by plants (phyto means plant). They are found in fruits, vegetables, grains, beans, and other plants. Some of these phytochemicals are believed to protect cells from damage that could lead to cancer. Loading up on one or two phytochemicals in pill form probably won't be as beneficial as eating a balanced diet with a variety of foods that includes 5 or more cups of fruits and vegetables per day and food from other plant sources, such as whole-grain breads, cereals, nuts, seeds, rice and pasta, and beans.
Phytochemicals are found in plant foods (fruits, vegetables, beans, grains). By maintaining a balanced eating pattern that includes different forms and colors of fruits and vegetables, you’ll provide your body with a wide variety of all beneficial compounds, including phytochemicals! Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body. Some researchers estimate there are up to 4,000 phytochemicals! Scientists have identified thousands of them, although only a small fraction of phytochemicals have been studied closely.
What I didn’t mention is that antioxidants are actually part of a group of compounds called phytochemicals. “Phyto” comes from the Greek word for “plant”, and so phytochemicals are essentially chemical compounds that can be found in plant foods like fruits, vegetables, beans and whole grains. In general, these chemical compounds give plant-based foods their distinctive color, smell and taste. 