How to Make Quicklime. Quicklime, also known as calcium oxide (CaO), is a caustic alkaline substance. It has been used by humans for centuries for many things such as mortar, flux, treating corn, and in mixtures to waterproof boats. Today, quicklime is used in many industrial processes. Ad.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Quicklime, more formally known as calcium oxide (CaO), is a caustic alkaline substance that is produced by heating limestone in specially designed kilns. There are a wide range of uses for this substance, ranging from mortar to flux, and it has been used by humans for centuries. Quicklime is also known as burnt lime, a reference to its manufacturing process, or simply lime. To make it, limestone (CaCO3) is broken up and shoveled into a kiln, which is heated to very high temperatures. The high temperatures release carbon dioxide (CO2) from the stone, turning it into calcium oxide
This reaction is reversible; calcium oxide will react with carbon dioxide to form calcium carbonate. The reaction is driven to the right by flushing carbon dioxide from the mixture as it is released. The production of calcium oxide from limestone is one of the oldest chemical transformations produced by man. 
Hydrated lime, sometimes called slaked lime, is quicklime to which water has been added until all the oxides of calcium and magnesium have been converted to hydroxides. The water has slaked quicklime’s thirst. Hydrated lime made from pure calcium oxide will be roughly 74 percent calcium oxide and 24 percent chemically combined water. Dolomitic hydrated lime will have about 48 percent calcium oxide, 34 percent magnesium oxide and 17 percent water. Hydrated lime is white and powdery. 
Quicklime (Calcium Oxide) is an efficient scavenger of moisture in its dehydrated state. A material that is mostly calcium oxide (CaO) in natural association with a lesser amount of magnesium oxide. Quicklime is capable of combining with water to form hydrated lime.
calcium oxide. calcium oxide, chemical compound, CaO, a colorless, cubic crystalline or white amorphous substance. It is also called lime, quicklime, or caustic lime, but commercial lime often contains impurities, e.g., silica, iron, alumina, and magnesia. 
Calcium oxide (CaO), commonly known as quicklime or burnt lime, is a widely used chemical compound. It is a white, caustic, alkaline, crystalline solid at room temperature. The broadly used term  lime  connotes calcium-containing inorganic materials, in which carbonates, oxides and hydroxides of calcium, silicon, magnesium, aluminium, and iron predominate. CaCO 3(s) → CaO (s) + CO 2(g). The quicklime is not stable and, when cooled, will spontaneously react with CO 2 from the air until, after enough time, it will be completely converted back to calcium carbonate unless slaked with water to set as lime plaster or lime mortar.
Burning (calcination) converts them into the highly caustic material quicklime (calcium oxide, CaO) and, through subsequent addition of water, into the less caustic (but still strongly alkaline) slaked lime or hydrated lime (calcium hydroxide, Ca(OH) 2), the process of which is called slaking of lime. Lime is a calcium-containing inorganic material in which carbonates, oxides and hydroxides predominate. Strictly speaking, lime is calcium oxide or calcium hydroxide.
Calcium oxide which survives processing without reacting in building products such as cement is called free lime. Quicklime is relatively inexpensive. Both it and a chemical derivative (calcium hydroxide, of which quicklime is the base anhydride) are important commodity chemicals. CaCO 3(s) → CaO (s) + CO 2(g). The quicklime is not stable and, when cooled, will spontaneously react with CO 2 from the air until, after enough time, it will be completely converted back to calcium carbonate unless slaked with water to set as lime plaster or lime mortar.