The best food sources of vitamin K are green leafy vegetables such as cabbage, turnip greens, broccoli, lettuce, and spinach. Green tea is another good source with one cup giving you your daily requirement of this nutrient. Beef liver is another good source; chicken liver, pork liver, milk, and eggs contain smaller amounts of the vitamin. Liver, however, may also contain environmental toxins. Other sources, such as green tea, are better choices.Not all of the vitamin K we get comes from the foods we ea
The following list summarizes selected foods containing high levels of Vitamin K, as measured by the U. S. Department of Agriculture. By far, the major source of Vitamin K is green, leafy, vegetables-kale, collards, spinach, and turnip greens are the highest. 
Vitamin K is an essential nutrient for maintaining proper blood clotting and healthy bones. It's a fat-soluble vitamin present naturally in many foods. Healthy bacteria that live in your intestines can also manufacture vitamin K. Your body can store vitamin K in the liver and fat tissues, making deficiency rare. Leafy green vegetables are one of the richest dietary sources of vitamin K. This category includes kale, spinach, collard greens, Swiss chard, mustard greens, turnip greens, spinach and leaf lettuce.
These greens contain anywhere from 265 to 531 micrograms of vitamin K per 1/2 cup cooked and 116 to 299 micrograms per cup raw. According to the Institute of Medicine, men need at least 120 micrograms of vitamin K per day, and women need at least 90 micrograms per day. Leafy green vegetables are one of the richest dietary sources of vitamin K. This category includes kale, spinach, collard greens, Swiss chard, mustard greens, turnip greens, spinach and leaf lettuce.
A few fruits provide vitamin K as well. Eating 1/4 cup of prunes gives you 26 micrograms of vitamin K. A cup of raw blueberries or blackberries gives you 29 micrograms of the nutrient. Kiwis, grapes, pomegranates, currants, avocados, cranberries, pears, melons and apricots also provide small amounts of vitamin K. Leafy green vegetables are one of the richest dietary sources of vitamin K. This category includes kale, spinach, collard greens, Swiss chard, mustard greens, turnip greens, spinach and leaf lettuce.
Vitamin K refers to a group of structurally similar, fat-soluble vitamins the human body needs for complete synthesis of certain proteins that are required for blood coagulation, and also certain proteins that the body uses to control binding of calcium in bone and other tissues. For several decades, the vitamin K-deficient chick model was the only method of quantifying vitamin K in various foods: the chicks were made vitamin K-deficient and subsequently fed with known amounts of vitamin K-containing food.