English Meaning: The name Tyler is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Tyler is: Tile layer, or a. An English surname frequently used as a given name. American Meaning: The name Tyler is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Tyler is: Tile layer, or a. An English surname frequently used as a given
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Some famous bearers of this name include: Tyler Ashe, Tyler Green. Just for fun, see the name Tyler in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Tyler in Nautical Flags page.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Tyler and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Tyler and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Popularity of the Name Tyler. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Tyler displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Tyler /ty-ler/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less regularly as girls' name Tyler) is pronounced TY-ler. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Tyler is a worker in roof tiles. Occupational name. Kreatif forms: Taler, Tiler, Tymer. Tyler is a very prominent first name for men (#198 out of 1220, Top 16%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#477 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Tyler for boys.
It ranked 72 in popular baby names for boys with 5785 occurrences. View the Tyler Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Tyler has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Tyler to other names. Tyler is a variant spelling of Ty. Variants of the name Tyler include Tylar, Tylor. Some famous bearers of this name include: Tyler Ashe, Tyler Green. Just for fun, see the name Tyler in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Tyler in Nautical Flags page.
Tyler is an English (old English) word which means door keeper of an inn. It is also thought to be a derived occupational name derived from “tiler”, one who makes tiles. It is used both as a surname, and as given name for any gender. Among the earliest recorded use of the surname is from the 14th century; Wat Tyler of Kent, South East England.
Additional information: The name Tyler is the name of a city in Texas, USA, probably named after the 10th US President, John Tyler. Categories: American Names, Australian Names, Canadian Names, English Names, Places Names, President Names, Surnames Names, Twilight Names. Used in: English speaking countries. Popularity of the Name Tyler. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Tyler displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Tyler is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ty-ler. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1368 in baby name popularity for girls with 168 occurrences. Some famous bearers of this name include: Tyler Ashe, Tyler Green. Just for fun, see the name Tyler in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Tyler in Nautical Flags page.
Recorded in the spellings of Tyler, Tiler and Tylor, this interesting surname is of Anglo-Saxon and French origins. It was originally an occupational surname for a maker or layer of tiles. 
Origin of the name Tyler: Transferred use of the surname derived from the Old French tieuleor, tieulier (tiler, tile maker) and the Middle English tyler, tylere (a brick, a tile). The name originated as an occupational name for a tile or brick maker or layer. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.