LAMP stack is a popular open source web platform commonly used to run dynamic web sites and servers. It includes Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP/Python/Perl and is considered by many the platform of choice for development and deployment of high performance web applications which require a solid and reliable foundation. 
LAMP: The Open Source Web Platform. Several months ago, David Axmark and Monty Widenius of the MySQL team visited us in Sebastopol and they dropped a new term in our laps: LAMP. This term was popular in Germany, they said, to define how MySQL was used in conjunction with Linux, Apache, and either Perl, Python, or PHP. Our customized content management system, Community Server, is a LAMP platform, consisting of Linux+Apache+MySQL+Perl. Another important project at O'Reilly Network is Meerkat, an RSS syndication server, and it uses Linux+Apache+MySQL+PHP. So we not only believe in LAMP; our Web sites are built on LAMP.
The basic components of the LAMP web platform include an operating system, web server, database management tool and scripting languages. Linux is the LAMP operating system. It is a unix-like system kernel used to provide communication between the system hardware and software. Linux is available as open source and may be modified under the GNU GPL license. Apache is the LAMP web server application. It is a very reliable open source server option that has become prevalent across the web. In fact, it now serves over 46% of all websites on the internet. MySQL is the database management solution included in the LAMP web platform model.
LAMP stack is a group of open source software used to get web servers up and running. The acronym stands for Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP. Since the virtual private server is already running Ubuntu, the linux part is taken care of. 
Introduction to LAMP technology: Explore the open source Web development platform. This tutorial explores the Linux-Apache-MySQL-PHP, or LAMP, Web development framework and shows how that framework can help you build applications to solve common business problems.
Intel MFSYS25. vs. Super Micro SuperBlade. LAMP is an open source Web development platform that uses Linux as the operating system, Apache as the Web server, MySQL as the relational database management system and PHP as the object-oriented scripting language. (Sometimes Perl or Python is used instead of PHP.). 
Perl or Python is often substituted for PHP. LAMP technology can drive Web applications, and although it is powerful, is also comparatively simple and easy to use. Individually, Linux, Apache Web server, MySQL database, Perl, Python or PHP are each a powerful component in its own right. 
Originally popularized from the phrase Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP, the acronym LAMP now refers to a generic software stack model. The modular componentry of a LAMP stack may vary, but this particular software combination has become popular because it is entirely free and open-source software. With the growing use of the archetypal LAMP, variations and retronyms appeared for other combinations of operating system, web server, database, and software language. For example, an equivalent installation on the Microsoft Windows operating system family is known as WAMP.
The acronym LAMP refers to a solution stack of software, usually free and open source software, used to run dynamic Web sites or servers. The original expansion is as follows: 1  Linux, referring to the operating system; 2  Apache, the web server; 3  MySQL, the database management system (or database server); 
The LAMP components are largely interchangeable and not limited to the original selection. As a solution stack, LAMP is suitable for building dynamic web sites and web applications. Since its creation, the LAMP model has been adapted to other componentry, though typically consisting of free and open-source software. With the growing use of the archetypal LAMP, variations and retronyms appeared for other combinations of operating system, web server, database, and software language. For example, an equivalent installation on the Microsoft Windows operating system family is known as WAMP.