FLOWAGE EASEMENTS By Larry Kunzler March 31, 1996 WHAT IS THE DEFINITION OF FLOWAGE EASEMENT? A flowage easement is the right of the government to use another’s land. 1 Any easement is a right or privilege by one to use the land of another for a specific purpose.
The typical fuel flowage fee for small Montana airports is 5¢/gal. Many times, an airport will place a greater fuel flowage fee on jet fuel since this will shift even more of the cost burden to the more expensive, fuel consuming transient aircraft which place more wear and tear on the airport.
The last time airport fees were brought to market rate was in 1999. Fuel flowage fees were increased from 4¢ to 5¢ per gallon with no appeal requested. Monthly tiedown fees were proposed to be increased from $50 to $85 for a single engine aircraft and from $65 to $100 for twin engine aircraft.
Yes, if sales or use tax is imposed on the sale, the fee is subject to state and/or jurisdictional taxes that apply to the sale. By statute, jet fuel or special fuel used for aviation can be subject to a fuel flowage (in-plane) fee imposed by the airport.
Fees levied by an airport operator per unit (gallons/liter/pound) of aviation gasoline and jet fuel sold at the airport.
The average fuel flowage fee is 6¢ per gallon. During the survey interviews, most airports indicated that an increase in fuel flowage fees is currently under review. The fuel flowage fee charged by the City is to the fuel service providers including Chevron, Texaco, and Air BP, which deliver fuel to the airports.
The fuel flowage fee is actually an airport user fee and is the commonly accepted and fair way to raise airport revenues without placing the entire burden on local airport tenants since revenue is provided by transient aircraft using the airport.
Fuel flowage fee at the General Aviation Airports —the rate shall be $0.08 per gallon. Usage of Training and Transition Airport is $28.00 per approach. AOA (Aircraft Operating Area) Decal for General Aviation Airport Commercial Vehicles and Equipment – the fee shall be $10.00 per decal.