Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus to cause yeast infections. Sometimes, other types of candida fungus are to blame. Common treatments usually cure a Candida albicans infection. Yeast infections caused by other types of candida fungus can be more difficult to treat, and need more aggressive therapies. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.
Candidiasis is an infection caused by a group of yeasts. There are more than 20 species of Candida, the most common being Candida albicans. These fungi live on all surfaces of our bodies. Under certain conditions, they can become so numerous they cause infections, particularly in warm and moist areas. Examples of such infections are vaginal yeast infections (thrush), oral thrush, skin and nappy rash, and nail bed infections. Candidal infections commonly occur in warm moist body areas, such as underarms.
Vaginal yeast infections are caused by Candida albicans, which, along with a few types of bacteria, are normally present in relatively small numbers in your crotch. 
More than 20 types of Candida can cause infection with Candida albicans being the most common. Infections of the mouth are most common among children less than one month old, the elderly, and those with weak immune systems. Oral candidiasis is the most common fungal infection of the mouth, and it also represents the most common opportunistic oral infection in humans. In the Western Hemisphere, about 75% of females are affected at some time in their lives with a vaginal yeast infection.
Candidiasis is a fungal infection due to any type of Candida (a type of yeast). When it affects the mouth, it is commonly called thrush. Signs and symptoms include white patches on the tongue or other areas of the mouth and throat. Other symptoms may include soreness and problems swallowing. Oral candidiasis is the most common fungal infection of the mouth, and it also represents the most common opportunistic oral infection in humans. In the Western Hemisphere, about 75% of females are affected at some time in their lives with a vaginal yeast infection.
The fungus candida causes a vaginal yeast infection. Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Lactobacillus bacteria produce acid, which prevents yeast overgrowth. That balance can be disrupted and lead to a yeast infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.
Photomicrograph of the fungus Candida albicans. Candidiasis is a fungal infection caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. There are over 20 species of Candida yeasts that can cause infection in humans, the most common of which is Candida albicans. Candida yeasts normally live on the skin and mucous membranes without causing infection; however, overgrowth of these organisms can cause symptoms to develop.
A vaginal yeast infection is an infection of the vagina that causes itching and burning of the vulva, the area around the vagina. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by an overgrowth of the fungus Candida. Symptoms of vaginal yeast infections include burning, itching, and thick, white discharge. Yeast infections are easy to treat, but it is important to see your doctor or nurse if you think you have an infection. Yeast infection symptoms are similar to other vaginal infections and sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Candida albicans causes 80% to 90% of vaginal yeast infections. This fungus thrives in the digestive tract, mucous membranes (such as in the vagina, mouth, and nose), and skin. Normally, bacteria in your body keep yeast in check. 
Yeast infection causes. In women, yeast infections are a common cause of vaginal burning, itching and discharge. Yeasts are found in the vagina of most women and can overgrow if the environment in the vagina changes. Antibiotic and steroid use are common reasons for yeast overgrowth. Under certain conditions, they can become so numerous they cause infections, particularly in warm and moist areas. Examples of such infections are vaginal yeast infections (thrush), oral thrush, skin and nappy rash, and nail bed infections. Candidal infections commonly occur in warm moist body areas, such as underarms.