The treatment of patients with oral submucous fibrosis depends on the degree of clinical involvement. If the disease is detected at a very early stage, cessation of the habit is sufficient. Most patients with oral submucous fibrosis present with moderate-to-severe disease. Moderate-to-severe oral submucous fibrosis is irreversible. Medical treatment is symptomatic and predominantly aimed at improving mouth movements.
Oral submucousfibrosis: etiology,pathogenesis, andfuture research R. Rajendran1 Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF), a precancerous condition of the oral cavity, has been studied by anumberofworkers in the field. The prodromal symptoms include a burning sensation in the mouth when consumingspicy food, appearance of blisters especially in thepalate (6), ulcerations or recurrent generalized in-flammation ofthe oral mucosa, excessive salivation,defective gustatory sensation, and dryness of themouth(3).
In the initial phase of the disease, the mucosa feels leathery with palpable fibrotic bands. In the advanced stage the oral mucosa loses its resiliency and becomes blanched and stiff. The disease is believed to begin in the posterior part of the oral cavity and gradually spread outward. Other features of the disease include: 1  Xerostomia. 2  Recurrent ulceration. 3  Pain in the ear or deafness. 4  Nasal intonation of voice. 5  Restriction of the movement of the soft palate. 6  A budlike shrunken uvula
Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) is a chronic, debilitating disease characterised by juxtaepithelial fibrosis of the oral cavity. It is regarded as a precancerous and potentially malignant condition. 
Joshi subsequently coined the termed oral submucous fibrosis (OSF) for the condition in 1953. Oral submucous fibrosis is a chronic debilitating disease of the oral cavity characterized by inflammation and progressive fibrosis of the submucosal tissues (lamina propria and deeper connective tissues). Oral submucous fibrosis results in marked rigidity and an eventual inability to open the mouth. The pathogenesis of the disease is not well established, but the cause of oral submucous fibrosis is believed to be multifactorial. A number of factors trigger the disease process by causing a juxtaepithelial inflammatory reaction in the oral mucosa.
Abstract. Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) is an insidious chronic disease affecting any part of the oral cavity and sometimes the pharynx with epithelial atrophy leading to stiffness of the oral mucosa, causing trismus and inability to eat. OSMF is poorly understood and unsatisfactorily treated disease. However, a more serious complication of this disease is the risk of the development of oral carcinoma. The precancerous nature of OSMF has been observed with development of slowly growing squamous cell carcinoma in one-third of OSMF patients [ 2, 7 ].
A high incidence of oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) is linked to areca nut (group 1 human carcinogen) chewing in the Indian subcontinent. METHODS: We prospectively studied 371 consecutive patients with proven squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity. 
Medical and Surgical Treatment options for Oral Submucous Fibrosis. Oral submucous fibrosis is a pre malignant condition caused mainly due to chewing of Beetle Quid or Areca nuts. The hyalinisation of the buccal mucosa forming bands and decrease in mouth opening is the first symptom. Physiotherapy for OSMF is a very important part of the treatment procedure as it helps in increasing mouth opening and should be strictly followed as the Dentist has ordered. It is mainly important in post surgical cases as the hyaline bands are excised and with physiotherapy the contraction of bands can be prevented.
Oral submucous fibrosis (OSMF) is a chronic, complex potential potent pre-cancerous (appox 20% may have chances) condition characterized by juxta-epithelial inflammatory reaction and progressive fibrosis of the submucosal tissues (lamina propria and deeper connective tissues). In the advanced stage the oral mucosa loses its resiliency and becomes blanched and stiff. The disease is believed to begin in the posterior part of the oral cavity and gradually spread outward. Other features of the disease include: 1  Xerostomia. 2  Recurrent ulceration. 3  Pain in the ear or deafness. 4  Nasal intonation of voice.