Chana Dal is a bean grown in India that looks like yellow split peas. Many non-Indian stores will label yellow peas as Chana Dal. But unlike yellow peas, Chana Dal doesn't go mooshy when boiled. To be sure of what you are getting, you may be best to try looking in an Indian store. Chana Dal is closely related to chickpeas. It has the same scientific family name as chickpeas, Cicer arietinum, but while chickpeas belong to the kabuli group, chana dal belongs to the desi group.
1 Rinse and pick over 1 C chana dal. 2  Place the chana dal in a crockpot on low (for such a small quantity, I use my 1 1/2 quart crockpot). 3  Add 2 1/2 C very hot water to the chana dal. 4  7 hrs or so later, the chana dal will be nice and soft. 1 Place the chana dal in a crockpot on low (for such a small quantity, I use my 1 1/2 quart crockpot). 2  Add 2 1/2 C very hot water to the chana dal. 3
Chana dal is baby chickpeas that has been split and polished. It looks and tastes like small kernels of sweet corn, and is one of the most popular ingredients in Indian cuisine. Chana dal is delicious, nutritious and easily digested. Clean the chana dal and remove any kind of stones or dirt. To soak chana dal, first wash it twice with water and then soak it in warm water. Drain it and boil it in a vessel full of water or pressure cook till done. Soaked and cooked chana dal. To soak chana dal, clean and wash the chana dal and soak in enough water for 4 to 5 hours. For parboiling, drain the soaked chana dal, again add clean water and boil till the dal is almost cooked, but not completely cook
Cook. Chana dal (or bengal gram) is my favorite variety of lentil, and together with spinach with a wonderful blend of spices in this dish, makes for a very wholesome, nourishing meal.Prep time does not include time for pre-soaking lentils.
Details. Chana dal is the split kernel of a variety of chickpea known as desi or bengal gram. It has a sweet and earthy flavor, and the cooked bean is about the size and shape of a corn kernel. This ancient legume has been around for centuries and remains a healthy and satisfying comfort food in India and the Middle East today. 
Also known as Bengal Gram. This is the most popular legume in India. Chana dal has a very low glycemic index. Whole Chana Dal. Whole chana is known as kala chana and belongs to the same family as chickpea. Whole chana is a little smaller and darker brown than chickpea and has a nutty taste. Kala chana is high in iron and protein. Split Chana Dal. Without the skin and split, chana is known split chana dal. Flour from chana dal is called Basen. Chana dal is delicious, nutritious and easily digested.
Due to its color, it is also called Kala chana. India is the largest producer and consumer of Desi Chana. Decorticated split Desi chana is called Chana Dal. Chana Dal is yellow in color. Yellow Split pea This is the fully mature green-pea that has been dried. In Hindi, green-pea is called Mattar. Report Abuse. Chana dal is a close relative of the chickpea-slightly smaller. There are lots and lots of other types of lentils and some of them are yellow. In India toor dhal (toovar, arhar are other names as is split pigeon pea) is a commonly used dhal. Chana dhal is larger and a bit crunchier than toor dhal
sometimes i add chana dal to vegetables like in this cabbage upkari or lauki chana dal curry. sometimes to rice to make this chana dal biryani or chana dal khichdi and most of the times i make this simple chana dal fry. chana dal is also known as bengal gram. these lentils have a sweet and nutty taste. chana dal comes from black chickpeas (kala chana). they are split and the outer cover is removed. these lentils are also powdered to give besan or gram flour. 