Fort Ord was one of the largest military bases in California and the West Coast. Fort Ord was established in 1917, originally as Camp Gigling and closed as Fort Ord on September 30, 1994 and was the home of the 7th Infantry Division (Light). We have photos of the Fort Ord hospital, Post Chapel, Army Post Headquarters, Officers Club, Main Garrison and East Garrison. In September of 1994, Fort Ord closed its gates; It is now the home of California State University Monterey Bay and Presidio of Monterey (POM) annex. To see some of A.C. Heidrick's panoramic views of Monterey. We also have photos of the City of Marina and Seaside, Monterey Co. Early automobiles photo gallery
That agency was entitled the “Fort Ord Reuse Authority” (FORA), formed in 1994. FORA has a governing body of 13 voting members and 11 non-voting members, and is comprised of representatives from cities, the county, special districts, public educational institutions, the military, and state and federal legislators. The Fort Ord Reuse Authority (FORA) was created in 1994 by State legislation to oversee the civilian reuse and redevelopment of the former Fort Ord military base.
Major cities near Fort Ord Village, CA. This is a list of large cities closest to Fort Ord Village, CA. A big city usually has a population of at least 200,000 and you can often fly into a major airport. If you need to book a flight, search for the nearest airport to Fort Ord Village, CA. 1  50 miles to San Jose, CA. 
Abandoned Prison, Fort Ord, California. Fort Ord is a large decommissioned Army base near Monterey California. The fort was closed in 1994 and the fort property is gradually being redeveloped. In the 1940s through the 1960s as many as 50,000 people were stationed at Fort Ord. Most of the Fort's structures were clustered in the Northwestern section of the fort property. Fort Ord is in a constant state of flux. Buildings are being torn down every day and new buildings are being constructed. The street layout is also being significantly changed in areas.
Fort Ord is a former United States Army post on Monterey Bay of the Pacific Ocean coast in California, which closed in 1994. Most of the fort's land now makes up the Fort Ord National Monument, managed by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management as part of the National Landscape Conservation System. Before construction and official designation as a fort in 1940, the land was used as a maneuver area and field-artillery target range during 1917. Fort Ord was considered one of the most attractive locations of any U.S. Army post, because of its proximity to the beach and California weather. The 7th Infantry Division was its main garrison for many years.
Originally founded in 1917, Fort Ord was used in the 1930's to train horse-mounted cavalry, and during World War II was used by the 7th Infantry Division and as a location for Basic Training. 
HISTORY. What remains of Fort Ord, is located on the historically rich Monterey Bay Peninsula in central California. In it's hey-day, Fort Ord covered over 28,600 acres. The local topography made it ideal as an infantry training center. This would become it's primary mission. It began during the Mexican-American War in 1846.
Map showing all locations mentioned on Wikipedia article: Fort Ord was a U.S. Army post on Monterey Bay in California. It was established in 1917 as a maneuver area and field artillery target range and was closed in September 1994. Fort Ord was one of the most attractive locations of any U.S. Army post, because of its proximity to the beach and California weather. In 1992, Army elements from Fort Ord and Marines from Camp Pendleton participated in quelling the 1992 Los Angeles Riots. In 1994 Fort Ord was finally closed. Most of the land was returned to the state of California and became the home of the California State University, Monterey Bay.
Fort Wayne area Ford Dealer | City Ford. City Ford is located in Columbia City, IN proudly serving Columbia City, Fort Wayne, Warsaw, and Auburn, Indiana. We offer a full line of New and Used Cars, Trucks, Vans, and Sport Utility Vehicles. If you're in need of a New or Used vehicle in the Fort Wayne, Indiana area we can help. 