The duration of a bond is the weighted-average period of time before the cash flows involved are received. (Technical note for those curious: The weight for each period is not based on the nominal value of the cash flow received at that time, but rather the present value of the cash flow.). For example, if a 10-year Treasury bond has a duration of 9 years, and interest rates for 10-year Treasuries increase by 1%, the bond’s price will fall by ~9%. (Conversely, if 10-year Treasury bond interest rates fell by 1%, the bond’s price would increase by approximately 9%.).
Duration. Average duration provides a measure of a fund's interest-rate sensitivity the longer a fund's duration, the more sensitive the fund is to shifts in interest rates. 
You will notice that all components of a bond are duration variables. That is, the bond's duration, coupon, and yield-to-maturity, as well as the extent of the change in interest rates, are all significant variables that ultimately determine how much a bond's price moves. Duration is the tool that helps investors gauge these price fluctuations that are due to interest rate risk. Duration is expressed as a number of years from the purchase date. In simple terms, a bond's duration will determine how its price is affected by interest rate changes.
Duration is stated in years. For example, a 5 year duration means the bond will decrease in value by 5% if interest rates rise 1% and increase in value by 5% if interest rates fall 1%. Duration is a weighted measure of the length of time the bond will pay out. Unlike maturity, duration takes into account interest payments that occur throughout the course of holding the bond. Basically, duration is a weighted average of the maturity of all the income streams from a bond or portfolio of bonds. Notice that the duration on any bond that pays coupons will be less than the maturity because there is some amount of the payments that are going to come before the maturity date. In this example, the maturity was 2 years. Investors use duration to measure the volatility of the bond.
6. Duration Is a Guide to Selecting Bonds. Another risk that bond investors face is interest rate risk--the risk that rising interest rates will make their fixed interest rate bonds less valuable. To illustrate this, let's suppose you bought a $1,000 par value bond with a 10-year maturity and a 6% coupon rate. Duration is the tool that helps investors gauge these price fluctuations that are due to interest rate risk. Duration is expressed as a number of years from the purchase date. In simple terms, a bond's duration will determine how its price is affected by interest rate changes.
Both measures are termed duration and have the same (or close to the same) numerical value, but it is important to keep in mind the conceptual distinctions between them. Macaulay duration is a time measure with units in years, and really makes sense only for an instrument with fixed cash flows. For a standard bond the Macaulay duration will be between 0 and the maturity of the bond. It is equal to the maturity if and only if the bond is a zero-coupon bond. Dollar duration or DV01 is the change in price in dollars, not in percentage. It gives the dollar variation in a bond's value per unit change in the yield. It is often measured per 1 basis point-DV01 is short for dollar value of an 01 (or 1 basis point).
So the following is an expanded version of Macaulay duration: Example 1: Betty holds a five-year bond with a par value of $1,000 and coupon rate of 5%. For simplicity, let's assume that the coupon is paid annually and that interest rates are 5%. The term duration has a special meaning in the context of bonds. It is a measurement of how long, in years, it takes for the price of a bond to be repaid by its internal cash flows.
Duration is determined by calculating the present value of the principal and each coupon and then multiplying each result by the period of time before payment is to occur. The concept of duration is used to relate the sensitivity of bond price changes to changes in interest rates. Also called mean term. Basically, the longer the duration -- expressed in years -- the more volatile the price. So a 1% change in interest rates will have less effect on the price of a bond with a duration of 2 than it will on the price of a bond with a duration of 5.
DEFINITION of 'Duration'. A measure of the sensitivity of the price (the value of principal) of a fixed-income investment to a change in interest rates. Duration is expressed as a number of years. Rising interest rates mean falling bond prices, while declining interest rates mean rising bond prices. Next Up
In finance, the duration of a financial asset that consists of fixed cash flows, for example a bond, is the weighted average of the times until those fixed cash flows are received. Dollar duration or DV01 is the change in price in dollars, not in percentage. It gives the dollar variation in a bond's value per unit change in the yield. It is often measured per 1 basis point-DV01 is short for dollar value of an 01 (or 1 basis point).