Answers. Best Answer: It takes about a week to really see the baby grass coming in and at about 2-3 weeks you might be good enough to get your first cut in. I did Tall Fescue recently and it looked great by 3 weeks. The key is to not skimp on the water. I just planted some Bermuda grass seeds a couple of days ago. Assuming I've done everything right so far, how long will it take for me to see any grass sprout?
Time Frame. Bermuda grass usually sprouts between three days to a week from planting, but it will take about 10 weeks for the lawn to look lush. If your planting conditions are not ideal, it may take even longer to create a useable lawn. History. Bermuda grass originated in Africa and was brought to America in the 1500s by Spanish travelers. The scientific name for Bermuda grass is Cynodon dactylon, but it is also known as Bahama grass, Dubo, Scutch grass, Dog's Tooth grass, Devil's grass, Couch grass, Indian Doab and Grama.
1 You can generally start mowing 3-4 weeks after seeding your Bermuda lawn. 2  Occasionally if growth is rampant, you may need to mow within 2 weeks after planting. 3  Thereafter, mowing will be required in a range of 3 to 7 days depending on various factors. 4  Bermudas are mowed from around 3/8 inch to 1 & 1/2 inches in height. 1 Yes... 2  Bermuda seeds need both a LIGHT soil covering and the ability to receive sunlight through this covering in order to obtain good germination. 3  The ideal covering depth is 1/8 to 1/4 inch of soil, with 1/8 inch ideal. 4  Topdressings can be used, but care must be taken not to exceed 1/4 inch of soil coverage.
Bermuda grass, also known as the South's grass, is a thick, lush grass great for lawns, ground covers and other gardening uses. Bermuda grass is a perennial grass found in theme and amusement parks, golf courses and gardens. History. Bermuda grass originated in Africa and was brought to America in the 1500s by Spanish travelers. The scientific name for Bermuda grass is Cynodon dactylon, but it is also known as Bahama grass, Dubo, Scutch grass, Dog's Tooth grass, Devil's grass, Couch grass, Indian Doab and Grama.
You can grow common Bermuda grass from seed in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11. Under the right conditions, the seeds will begin germinating in five to 14 days but take 14 to 28 days to germinate completely. Seeding rates for Bermuda grass range from 1 to 2 pounds of hulled seed or 2 to 3 pounds of coated seed per 1,000 square feet of lawn. Use a rotary spreader and divide the seed in half and apply it in two directions. When you finish, lightly roll the seed to increase its contact with the soil
Climate and Germination. Bermuda grass seeds will germinate best if in a soil with a pH between 6 and 7. The grass grows best when the soil temperature is between 75 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit and the air temperature is between 75 and 95 F. You can expect a complete turf cover in four to six weeks. Seeding rates for Bermuda grass range from 1 to 2 pounds of hulled seed or 2 to 3 pounds of coated seed per 1,000 square feet of lawn. Use a rotary spreader and divide the seed in half and apply it in two directions. When you finish, lightly roll the seed to increase its contact with the soil
Please try again later. Bermuda grass is one of the fastest growing, warm season turf grasses. Use a nitrogen fertilizer to establish Bermuda grass more quickly with help from a farm adviser in this free video on growing grass and lawn care. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License.
Bermuda grass seed germinates in 10 to 30 days, depending on soil and weather conditions. Soil temperatures between 65 and 70 degrees F speed germination. 
7. Water your lawn for at least 30 minutes a day for seven days to make sure the seeds get enough water. Wait as long as you can to mow the tall grass -- at least four to five days -- so the seeds have time to become stable in the soil. 6. Water your lawn for about an hour immediately after you rake