If your listing was highly successful, Good Til Canceled is a great feature that requires no relisting strategies till your inventory reaches a certain level. Also remember that it will RECHARGE you the fees. This is why I called because I am spending the $100 for the new featured 30 day auction. I highly suggest this for right now as no one really knows how well these Fixed Price 30’s will work. If you select Good Til Canceled, this is the same as listing a 30 day duration listing but will re list after it is finished and carry over your “Velocity”.
Good-Til-Cancelled Order. A Good-Til-Cancelled (GTC) order is an order to buy or sell a stock that lasts until the order is completed or cancelled. Brokerage firms typically limit the length of time an investor can leave a GTC order open. This time frame may vary from broker to broker. To understand where and how an order you place with your broker is executed, you should read Trade Execution: What Every Investor Should Know. For more information on the different types of orders you can place when you buy or sell a stock, please read our investor bulletin “Trading Basics” .
DEFINITION of 'Good 'Til Canceled-GTC'. An order to buy or sell a security at a set price that is active until the investor decides to cancel it or the trade is executed. If an order does not have a good-'til-canceled instruction then the order will expire at the end of the trading day the order was placed. Next Up
An order with a good-til-canceled (GTC) time in force keeps the order working until it executes or you cancel it. In this example, it is Monday, June 1 and you want to buy 100 shares of XYZ, which is currently at 127.38 and you want the order to keep working until it fills. By modifying with a good-til-canceled attribute the investor can leave a resting order in the market in the hope his order will ultimately fill at his pre-determined level. The advantage is that the investor does not have to place the same order day after day until his price level is achieved. Assumptions. Action
Fixed Price 30 and Good Til Canceled Explained. Today is one of those days I just really regret. With Ebay’s new policies and FP 30 going into effect about 12 hours ago, I am having to change 270 templates to reflect a Fixed Price 30 duration if the quantity and success ratio represents a case for this listing type. I highly suggest this for right now as no one really knows how well these Fixed Price 30’s will work. If you select Good Til Canceled, this is the same as listing a 30 day duration listing but will re list after it is finished and carry over your “Velocity”.
Good-Til-Canceled (GTC) Orders. An order that uses the Good-Til-Canceled (GTC) time in force will continue to work until the order fills or is canceled 1. By modifying with a good-til-canceled attribute the investor can leave a resting order in the market in the hope his order will ultimately fill at his pre-determined level. The advantage is that the investor does not have to place the same order day after day until his price level is achieved. Assumptions. Action
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: good til cancelled means that your order is active until you cancel it. For example, you place an order to buy a stock at 10$/share, but its price is at $11. Obviously the order won't go through right away because the price is too high. However, let's say that a month later, the price dips down to $10. This would be a limit order. If the sale or purchase does not reach your set limit during the day, it is carried on the following day and so on until you cancel it. Good 'Til Cancelled. Most brokers keep limit orders to the end of the week usually as GTC is a bit wooly.
A Good-Til-Cancelled (GTC) order is an order to buy or sell a stock that lasts until the order is completed or cancelled. To understand where and how an order you place with your broker is executed, you should read Trade Execution: What Every Investor Should Know. For more information on the different types of orders you can place when you buy or sell a stock, please read our investor bulletin “Trading Basics” .
Fixed Price 30 (FP30) vs Good Till Canceled (GTC). I was a bit unsure about the differences between Fixed Price 30 and Good Til’ Canceled and how it would effect velocity with your listings so I decided to shoot a call to the powerseller hot-line. 