Monoclonal antibody: An antibody produced by a single clone of cells. A monoclonal antibody is therefore a single pure type of antibody. Monoclonal antibodies can be made in large quantities in the laboratory and are a cornerstone of immunology. Monoclonal antibodies are increasingly coming into use as therapeutic agents. 
Monoclonal antibodies (mAb or moAb) are monospecific antibodies that are made by identical immune cells that are all clones of a unique parent cell, in contrast to polyclonal antibodies which are made from several different immune cells. Monoclonal antibodies are typically made by fusing myeloma cells with the spleen cells from a mouse that has been immunized with the desired antigen. However, recent advances have allowed the use of rabbit B-cells to form a rabbit hybridoma.
Antibody proteins that bind to a specific target molecule (antigen) at one specific site (antigenic site). In response to either infection of immunization with a foreign agent, the immune system generates many different antibodies that bind to the foreign molecules. This hybridoma retains desirable characteristics of both parental cells, producing an antibody of a single specificity that can grow in culture indefinitely. Generation of monoclonal antibodies through the hybridoma process worked well with B cells from rodents but not with B cells from humans.
Definition of MONOCLONAL. : produced by, being, or composed of cells derived from a single cell. — monoclonal noun. ADVERTISEMENT
Monoclonal antibodies to treat cancer. One way the immune system attacks foreign substances in the body is by making large numbers of antibodies. An antibody is a protein that sticks to a specific protein called an antigen. Antibodies circulate throughout the body until they find and attach to the antigen.
monoclonal antibody. n. 1. (Biochemistry) an antibody, produced by a single clone of cells grown in culture, that is both pure and specific and is capable of proliferating indefinitely to produce unlimited quantities of identical antibodies: used in diagnosis, therapy, and biotechnology. any antibody produced by a laboratory-grown cell clone, either of a hybridoma or a virus-transformed lymphocyte, in order to achieve greater abundance and uniformity than provided by a natural antibody. Abbr.
A monoclonal antibody is a laboratory-produced molecule that's carefully engineered to attach to specific defects in your cancer cells. Monoclonal antibodies mimic the antibodies your body naturally produces as part of your immune system's response to germs, vaccines and other invaders. Monoclonal antibody drugs are a relatively new innovation in cancer treatment. While several monoclonal antibody drugs are available for treating certain cancers, the best way to use these new drugs isn't always clear.
monoclonal antibodies. identical immunoglobulin molecules formed by a single clone of plasma cells; may occur naturally in plasma cell myelomas or in vitro by the fusion of an antibody producing B lymphocyte with a non-antibody-producing myeloma B cell. 
an antibody produced by a clone or genetically homogeneous population of fused hybrid cells, that is, hybridoma. Hybrid cells are cloned to establish cell lines producing a specific antibody that is chemically and immunologically homogeneous. Any of a class of highly specific antibodies produced by the clones of a single hybrid cell formed in the laboratory by the fusion of a B cell with a tumor cell and widely used in medical and biological research.