How long does it take to heal a lip piercing? So long as the lip piercing is performed correctly and proper aftercare is followed and no infection or other hindrance in the healing process occur, most lip piercings require a minimum of six to eight weeks to heal. 1. So long as the lip piercing is performed correctly and proper aftercare is followed and no infection or other hindrance in the healing process occur, most lip piercings require a minimum of six to eight weeks to heal. Certain piercings such as the Madonna can take three months or longer.
The healing time of a navel/ belly button piercing can take longer due to the irritation of tight clothing. This can cause an infection. Here is a general guideline for how long it takes for certain body piercings to heal. — Ear lobe piercing takes between six to eight weeks to heal. — Ear cartilage takes between four months to one year to heal. — Eyebrows take between six to eight weeks to heal. How Long Does It Take for a Body Piercing to Heal: Healing Times for Body Piercings. So you’ve got a new body piercing and you’re wondering how long it’s going to take to heal. The length of time it takes for a body piercing to heal depends on where you get your body pierced. Some locations will take longer than others.
” appears very often in online forums. As we have said the time frame for a newly pierced nose to completely heal varies from 2 to 4 months for nostril piercing and 6 to 8 months for septum piercings. Swelling and other symptoms that appear immediately after the piercing is done however normally go away in 10 to 15 days. 
Healing time is different depending on the part of your body that you get pierced. Some parts are more likely to get infected or have problems. Piercings on your ear lobes usually take about 6-8 weeks to heal. However, piercings on the side of your ear (cartilage) can take anywhere from 4 months to 1 year to heal.
Leave the post in your piercing. Until the piercing has healed, taking the earring post out of the hole will only expose your raw tissue to infection. For ear piercings, the healing process typically takes 6-8 weeks. During that time, you must wear the earring you put into your new piercing at all times or risk a painful infection. 1 You should be able to notice results in less than 3 months, but it can take much longer than that to heal the hole completely. 2  Expect mild redness and a dip where the piercing was for a long while afterward.
For a navel piercing it may take 3 months to a year (sometimes a  little longer) to completely heal. My navel only took 2 months for  mine to heal. I was told it would take … 4-6 months by the place I  had it done. However, according to professionals, it can take up to  a year to heal completely. Most cartilage piercings take 6 months-1 year to completely heal. You'll be able to change the jewelry after about 2 months. It also depends on where it is exactly and if you' … re wearing a rings or stud. Studs are usually better because they dont get hit as often and they're better for swelling
I recently got mine done and the information sheet says 8-10 weeks, however, these are probably the longest it should take yours to heal.. That fact sheet was totally wrong … ... for males the healing time is 3-6 months, females 6 months to a year. Answer by Ll23. Confidence votes 58. No piercing is considered fully healed until it's a year old. Contrary to what you may read, it takes the body a full year to season a piercing to the point where it can be removed for extended periods of time without the risk of the piercing closing.
Well the piercing needs to heal, this can take up to a year for a piercing to become seasoned (this is when you can remove the jewellery for a few hours and not have an issue … putting it back in). Average heal time can vary from piercing to piercing from 4~6 weeks for some and other a lot longer. Light heals are not considered healed and can be damaged by removing the jewellery too soon. Nostril piercings can take 6 months to 1 year to heal completely, and a septum piercing usually takes about 3 months. Most cartilage piercings take 6 months-1 year to completely heal. You'll be able to change the jewelry after about 2 months. It also depends on where it is exactly and if you' … re wearing a rings or stud. Studs are usually better because they dont get hit as often and they're better for swelling