Scientists at the University of Washington found that consuming acetaminophen, one of the main ingredients in many over-the-counter pain-relief medications like Tylenol, and caffeine can eventually scar the tissue in the liver. “I have not seen caffeine cause liver damage,” said Adler. “I don’t think Tylenol, for example, if taken as directed, would cause damage, but if you start taking higher doses and more frequently it can lead to liver damage.”.
One ingredient in this product is acetaminophen. Taking too much acetaminophen may cause serious (possibly fatal) liver disease. Adults should not take more than 4000 milligrams (4 grams) of acetaminophen a day. People with liver problems and children should take less acetaminophen. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how much acetaminophen is safe to take. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen without asking your doctor or pharmacist first. Acetaminophen is in many nonprescription and prescription medications (such as pain/fever drugs or cough-and-cold products).
pk9000 8 years. Excedrin or a cup of coffee and a Tylenol will not cause the type of damage this article is referring to. You need a lot of caffeine to cause any damage. In the article, they mention 10 times as much as a few cups of coffee. Nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, naproxen) are COX inhibitors just like aspirin. There's little risk of liver damage and they do not cause problems with alcohol like Tylenol.
Researchers have found that caffeine can triple the amount of a toxic byproduct, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI), an enzyme produced while breaking down acetaminophen, which is also responsible for liver damage and failure in most toxic alcohol-acetaminophen interactions. “I have not seen caffeine cause liver damage,” said Adler. “I don’t think Tylenol, for example, if taken as directed, would cause damage, but if you start taking higher doses and more frequently it can lead to liver damage.”.
This product is a combination of aspirin, acetaminophen, and caffeine. It is used for the temporary relief of pain from conditions such as muscle aches, toothaches, menstrual cramps, or headaches (including migraine). Aspirin and acetaminophen relieve pain by keeping your body from making certain natural substances. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how much acetaminophen is safe to take. Do not use with any other drug containing acetaminophen without asking your doctor or pharmacist first. Acetaminophen is in many nonprescription and prescription medications (such as pain/fever drugs or cough-and-cold products).
A mix of acetaminophen and caffeine may cause liver damage, especially in heavy caffeine drinkers, according to a preliminary study conducted by the University of Washington in Seattle. “I have not seen caffeine cause liver damage,” said Adler. “I don’t think Tylenol, for example, if taken as directed, would cause damage, but if you start taking higher doses and more frequently it can lead to liver damage.”.
It requires more than just taking two Tylenol with your morning cup of coffee to create this toxic effect. It takes excessive amounts of caffeine to produce this reaction-we're talking about 20 cups of coffee! The bad news is that the combination of alcohol and acetaminophen can also damage your liver. You need a lot of caffeine to cause any damage. In the article, they mention 10 times as much as a few cups of coffee. Nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, naproxen) are COX inhibitors just like aspirin. There's little risk of liver damage and they do not cause problems with alcohol like Tylenol.
A new study has shown that when high doses of caffeine and acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) are taken together, it could lead to liver damage. This combination produces a byproduct enzyme that can be toxic to the liver. Sounds a bit scary, I know. You need a lot of caffeine to cause any damage. In the article, they mention 10 times as much as a few cups of coffee. Nonsteriodal anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, naproxen) are COX inhibitors just like aspirin. There's little risk of liver damage and they do not cause problems with alcohol like Tylenol.
Caffeine is a double-edged sword -- it can be both good and bad. Many headache medications contain caffeine, which definitely makes these medications work better. Many patients find having a cup of coffee or other caffeine-containing beverage with their medication helps it work better.
School of Medicine, Family Medicine answered. Caffeine can affect headaches in different ways. For some people, caffeine helps to relieve a stress headache or migraine. It is believed to do this by altering blood flow to the blood vessels in the brain. However, caffeine withdrawal in someone who regularly drinks coffee or energy drinks or uses caffeine pills may also cause headaches. Many headache medications contain caffeine, which definitely makes these medications work better. Many patients find having a cup of coffee or other caffeine-containing beverage with their medication helps it