Article points, that “Most of the Great Wall of China was built in the Ming dynasty (1368-1644).” The article from Wikipedia states, that in 1368 was the fall of Yuan Dynasty, marking the Mongolian Empire’s final dissolution. Fact 10: The construction of the Great Wall tells the entire story of the rise and fall of the Chinese Empire. The construction of the Wall, which was done for fame, protection, security bankrupted the regime which created civil unrest in the Nation.
Because the walls were built of mud, gravel, and wood, repairs were often necessary. The wall that is seen today was mainly built by the Ming Dynasty in the 1400's B.C. Most of the artisans from this later time used stronger elements in the construction such as bricks and stone. Better materials made for a much more permanent structure. The great wall consists of different sections and has an amazing length, but why was it built, what was the purpose of the great wall. Related article: the construction of the Great wall of China.
It's well known that Emperor Qin built the Great Wall. But the history of the Great Wall is not that simple. Emperor Qin was not the first to build the Great Wall... or the last. There are many sections in different places, built with different materials, and built in different dynasties. Most of today's Great Wall was built or restored in the Ming Dynasty. In order to consolidate the northern border, after reclaiming China from the Mongol-led Yuan Dynasty (1279–1368), Emperors of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) never stopped building
The Great Wall stretches from Dandong in the east, to Lop Lake in the west, along an arc that roughly delineates the southern edge of Inner Mongolia. A comprehensive archaeological survey, using advanced technologies, has concluded that the Ming walls measure 8,850 km (5,500 mi). Several walls were being built as early as the 7th century BCE; these, later joined together and made bigger and stronger, are now collectively referred to as the Great Wall. Especially famous is the wall built 220–206 BCE by Qin Shi Huang, the first Emperor of China. Little of that wall remains.
Answer by Brave Fencer. Confidence votes 3.9K. The Great Wall of China is a Chinese fortification built from 3rd century BC until the beginning of the 17th century, in order to protect the various dynasties from raids by Mongol, Turkic, and other nomadic tribes coming from areas in modern-day Mongolia and Manchuria. The Xiongnu tribe was China's main enemy at that time. The Chinese built the Great Wall to prevent them from entering and conquering China. Originally made up of shorter walls between factions, the wall was fortified and lengthened under the emperor Qin Shi Huang beginning in 221 BC.
Let's walk through history. Advertisement. The Great Wall of China is the largest network of walls ever built by man. It is not surprising that this structure, which is approximately 5,500 miles long, and runs over plains, hills and deserts, is not the result of the efforts of a single group of Chinese people. The wall was built over 2000 years and involved a large number of imperial dynasties of China.
Fact 1: The Great Wall of China, which now stretches up to 4,160 miles, was initiated as different walls built as mere borders for four different states in the then disintegrated nation long before the famous Qin Dynasty. Fact 10: The construction of the Great Wall tells the entire story of the rise and fall of the Chinese Empire. The construction of the Wall, which was done for fame, protection, security bankrupted the regime which created civil unrest in the Nation.
The Great Wall is a series of stone and earthen fortifications in China, built, rebuilt, and maintained between the 5th century BC and the 16th century to protect the northern borders of the Chinese Empire during the rule of successive dynasties. The Xiongnu tribe was China's main enemy at that time. The Chinese built the Great Wall to prevent them from entering and conquering China. Originally made up of shorter walls between factions, the wall was fortified and lengthened under the emperor Qin Shi Huang beginning in 221 BC.
The Great Wall of China was built from the 3rd century B.C.E to the 17th century AD, in order to prevent the Mongols from entering and invading China. *Please see the relate … d questions and link below for more information. The Xiongnu tribe was China's main enemy at that time. The Chinese built the Great Wall to prevent them from entering and conquering China. Originally made up of shorter walls between factions, the wall was fortified and lengthened under the emperor Qin Shi Huang beginning in 221 BC.