Interestingly, the adult goldenrod gall fly does not eat. Goldenrod larvae and gall flies have predators; Downy Woodpeckers and Chickadees know there is a juicy treat waiting for them in those galls and they will break them open to eat a larva. There is a beetle that will burrow into the gall to have a meal. Goldenrod gall flies do not seem to have any effects on us. They do not sting or bite and they tend to be focused only on mating and goldenrods; in fact, their activities do not even harm the goldenrod.
The adult will leave the gall and look for a mate. Adult Goldenrod Gall Flies do not eat. Copyright, Dr. Warren Abrahamson and Paul Heinrich Copyright, Dr. Warren Abrahamson and Paul Heinrich Goldenrod Gall Flies have many predators, some even when they are in the larval stage in their gall. The Goldenrod Gall Fly is a parasite on goldenrod plants. The fly's entire life, and death, is centered around Goldenrod. This small brown fly is about five millimeters long. Males are slightly smaller than females
Goldenrod Gall Fly Life-Cycle. The goldenrod gall fly (Eurosta solidaginis) is a common and widely distributed insect found coast to coast in the central part of North America. The adult flies emerge from their galls in late spring. In Manitoba they emerge mid to late May, or even early June. In southern Manitoba there is one critter that is particularly suited for a class room demonstration of survival at sub-zero temperatures. The larva of the Goldenrod Gall Fly (Eurosta solidaginis) is both common and easy to get.
The commonest goldenrod gall is a round gall in the middle of a stem called a ball gall, made by the Goldenrod Gall Fly, Eurosta solidaginis. In spring, the female fly lays her eggs on goldenrod stems. When the larvae hatch, they chew their way into the stems and galls start to develop. A very different type of gall is made by a tiny fly called the Goldenrod Gall Midge, Rhopalomyia solidaginis. The gall is a tight cluster of small leaves at the top of a stalk that resembles a green flower and is called a bunch gall, rosette gall or flower gall.
Adult Goldenrod Gall Flies only live about two weeks. Fly larvae will hatch from the eggs in about 10 days. The larvae will immediately begin to eat from inside the stem of the goldenrod. The Goldenrod Gall Fly is a parasite on goldenrod plants. The fly's entire life, and death, is centered around Goldenrod. This small brown fly is about five millimeters long. Males are slightly smaller than females
In the spring it pupates and by late May or early June emerges from the gall, breaking through the thin surface of its exit hole, as a fly with banded wings. Adults usually live about 2 weeks. A similar gall that is eliptical, not round is produced by the Goldenrod Gall Moth, Gnorimoschema sp. As you walk around Fermilab in the fall keep your eyes open for a round lump on the stems of many of the goldenrod plants that grow throughout the site. This gall is produced by the activity of the Goldenrod Gall Fly, Eurosta solidaginis.
0 Comment. The goldenrod gall fly lives its entire life on goldenrod plants. This fly is small and grows to be about five millimetres long with females usually being a bit larger. Females have an ‘egg-laying tube’ (ovipositor) that extends from their abdomen making them easier to identify. Goldenrod gall flies do not seem to have any effects on us. They do not sting or bite and they tend to be focused only on mating and goldenrods; in fact, their activities do not even harm the goldenrod.
Remember, the goldenrod stems have to have emerged first. Adult gall flies are small (about 5 mm) , clumsy and are poor fliers. (They have difficulty righting themselves if they fall on their backs!) They do most of their traveling by walking. Adult flies only live about 2 weeks, during which time they mate and the females lay their eggs. In southern Manitoba there is one critter that is particularly suited for a class room demonstration of survival at sub-zero temperatures. The larva of the Goldenrod Gall Fly (Eurosta solidaginis) is both common and easy to get.