Map of Traralgon, VIC 3844. Traralgon is Latrobe City's entertainment capital. Enjoy alfresco dining and great shopping by day‚ fine dining restaurants‚ excellent bars‚ pubs and clubs by night‚ each offering great food‚ atmosphere and entertainment. Picturesque Victory Park‚ on the banks of Traralgon Creek‚ has a band rotunda set amongst shady trees‚ and access to Newman Park. Popular
Street Map of Traralgon (Victoria), Australia. Below map you can see Traralgon street list. If you click on street name, you can see position on the map. 
The Latrobe Valley is an inland geographical district and urban area of the Gippsland region in the state of Victoria, Australia. The district lies east of the Melbourne and nestled between the Strzelecki Ranges to the south and the Baw Baw Ranges, part of the Great Dividing Range, to the north. Mount Baw Baw (1,567 m (5,141 ft)) is the highest peak to the north of the Latrobe Valley, due north of Moe. The highest peak to the south is Mt Tassie (740 m (2,430 ft)), south of Traralgon.
Amble along the wide tree-lined streets, beautiful gardens and spacious parklands of the Latrobe Valley's largest city. As the region's entertainment capital, Traralgon is flush with alfresco dining options and a thriving pub and club scene. Historic sights. See remnants of the gold rush years reflected in the architecture of the town: the Traralgon Post Office, Ryans Hotel and Ostler House.
Traralgon is a town located in the east of the Latrobe Valley in the Gippsland region of Victoria, Australia. The population of the locality by the same name is 23,834 which represents the majority of the Traralgon urban area's total population of 24,590. It is the largest and fastest growing city in the greater Latrobe Valley urban area, which has a population of more than 75,000 and is administered by the City of Latrobe. It was not until the 1930s however that Traralgon began to move away from a farming based economy. In 1936 Australian Paper Manufacturers established a paper mill at Maryvale, around 8 kilometres (5 mi) from Traralgon. Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh visited on 3 March 1954.
Latrobe Valley’s largest city, Traralgon is shaped by wide tree-lined streets, beautiful gardens and spacious parklands. The town is the region’s entertainment capital with alfresco dining at cafes and restaurants, and thriving pubs and clubs. 
3D map of Traralgon in Australia. You can also dive right into Traralgon on unique 3D satellite map provided by Google Earth. With new GoogLe Earth plugin you can enjoy the interactive Traralgon 3D map within your web browser. See Traralgon photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Traralgon in Australia. Traralgon hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
Traralgon: map | 3d map » | hotel » | car rental ». Welcome to the Traralgon google satellite map! This place is situated in La Trobe, Victoria, Australia, its geographical coordinates are 38° 11' 0 South, 146° 32' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Traralgon. See Traralgon photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Traralgon in Australia. Traralgon hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
detailed map of Traralgon and near places. Welcome to the Traralgon google satellite map! This place is situated in La Trobe, Victoria, Australia, its geographical coordinates are 38° 11' 0 South, 146° 32' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Traralgon. See Traralgon photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Traralgon in Australia. Traralgon hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
Traralgon. Amble along the wide tree-lined streets, beautiful gardens and spacious parklands of the Latrobe Valley's largest city. As the region's entertainment capital, Traralgon is flush with alfresco dining options and a thriving pub and club scene. Historic sights. See remnants of the gold rush years reflected in the architecture of the town: the Traralgon Post Office, Ryans Hotel and Ostler House. Traralgon has grown to service Victoria's energy, and the local surrounding agricultural, pastoral, papermaking and timber industries.