The distinguished housekeeper Mrs. Fairfax presides over the estate. Jane’s employer at Thornfield is a dark, impassioned man named Rochester, with whom Jane finds herself falling secretly in love. She saves Rochester from a fire one night, which he claims was started by a drunken servant named Grace Poole. Knowing that it is impossible for her to be with Rochester, Jane flees Thornfield. Penniless and hungry, Jane is forced to sleep outdoors and beg for food. At last, three siblings who live in a manor alternatively called Marsh End and Moor House take her in.
Consider the treatment of Jane as a governess, but also of the other servants in the book, along with Jane’s attitude toward her impoverished students at Morton. 4. Compare and contrast some of the characters who serve as foils throughout Jane Eyre: Blanche to Jane, St. John to Rochester, and, perhaps, Bertha to Jane. Some names to consider include: Jane Eyre, Gateshead, Lowood, Thornfield, Reed, Rivers, Miss Temple, and Ferndean. Of course, there are many possible ways to address this question. The following answer includes only a few of the ways the names in Jane Eyre can be interpreted.
A servant named Bessie provides Jane with some of the few kindnesses she receives, telling her stories and singing songs to her. One day, as punishment for fighting with her bullying cousin John Reed, Jane’s aunt imprisons Jane in the red-room, the room in which Jane’s Uncle Reed died. Knowing that it is impossible for her to be with Rochester, Jane flees Thornfield. Penniless and hungry, Jane is forced to sleep outdoors and beg for food. At last, three siblings who live in a manor alternatively called Marsh End and Moor House take her in.
Rochester keeps Bertha hidden on the third story of Thornfield and pays Grace Poole to keep his wife under control. Bertha was the real cause of the mysterious fire earlier in the story. Knowing that it is impossible for her to be with Rochester, Jane flees Thornfield. Penniless and hungry, Jane is forced to sleep outdoors and beg for food. At last, three siblings who live in a manor alternatively called Marsh End and Moor House take her in.
Thornfield Hall is the home of the male romantic lead, Edward Rochester, in the 1847 novel Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte brontë where much of the action takes. Place bronte brontë uses the Depiction of thornfield in a manner consistent with the gothic tone of the novel as. a whole It is suggested that Bronte brontë Based thornfield On Haddon, hall Near, Bakewell, derbyshire although the evidence for this is unclear and; doubtful it is perhaps based on' filmmakers use for some of the'novel s-on screen. adaptations
Summary 1. Chapter one introduces Jane, the narrator of the story, her aunt Mrs. Reed, and her cousins, Eliza, John and Georgiana Reed. Ten-year old Jane lives at the Reed's Gateshead Hall. It becomes obvious that Jane's place in the household is not a comfortable one, and Mrs. Reed does not think highly of her. 
Jane Eyre at Thornfield. Jane's decision to leave Lowood in order to work at Thornfield is a key point in the novel, showing her new independence and introducing her to her true love. Elizabeth Gregory Dec 13, 2007Updated 3 months ago. Elizabeth Gregory. At first, Thornfield seems an unlikely venue for a young woman to find romance. Jane, however, proves more than a match for Mr Rochester, and it is at Thornfield that she truly begins to shine as a heroine. During their first real conversation in Chapter 13, Jane speaks with her master as if she were an equal-which in her mind, she is: when he teases her for bewitching his horse, I shook my head.
The environment also lacks care to the point that Jane's friend Helen dies from consumption. What Lowood did to Jane was to reenforce her character and refine it. 3. Thornfield: Here Jane is the governess for Adele, and for the first time gets a sort of responsability that is derived from her position. I think Jane matures at Thornfield. She also meets Rochester who she soon falls in love with. Analyze the importance of the five major places Jane lives on her journey: Gateshead, Lowood, Thornfield, Moor House/Marsh End, and Ferndean.
Thornfield Hall is the home of the male romantic lead, Edward Rochester, in the 1847 novel Jane Eyre by Charlotte Bronte brontë where much of the action takes. place It is suggested that Bronte brontë Based thornfield On Haddon, hall Near, Bakewell, derbyshire although the evidence for this is unclear and; doubtful it is perhaps based on' filmmakers use for some of the'novel s-on screen. adaptations
Despite these setbacks, Rochester does of course eventually propose to Jane, in a beautiful scene set in the gardens at Thornfield. The weather is perfect and the garden is reminiscent of paradise: I went apart into the orchard. Jane, however, proves more than a match for Mr Rochester, and it is at Thornfield that she truly begins to shine as a heroine. During their first real conversation in Chapter 13, Jane speaks with her master as if she were an equal-which in her mind, she is: when he teases her for bewitching his horse, I shook my head.