The best place to keep your cheese is in the bottom vegetable drawer of your refrigerator or on a shelf farthest from the freezer. The correct temperature for storing cheese is between 35 and 45 degrees F. If the cheese freezes it can lose its texture. Photo from WxMom, Flickr. Learn how to wrap cheese in paper. 
For cheeseboard use, take Stilton out of the fridge up to 2 hours before serving to reach room temperature (20 degrees C or 68 degrees F); serve with plum bread or a mango chutney for a change. Stilton filo parcels-Place slices of Stilton on 3 or 4 layers of filo pastry. Fold into neat parcels and bake in a hot oven for 10-15 minutes-perfect party food! 8. Stilton jackets-Instead of butter, mix a little Stilton with potato scooped from a halved jacket potato and put back into the skins and cook until melted.
1 If you believe it will be longer than 4 weeks before you might enjoy your Stilton, you can freeze it. 2  Freezing is acceptable with a few rules attached. 3  Take your cling film segments and wrap them with another layer of aluminum foil. 4  These parcels may be kept in the freeze for 6 to 10 weeks. 1 Take your cling film segments and wrap them with another layer of aluminum foil. 2  These parcels may be kept in the freeze for 6 to 10 weeks. 3  When you defrost Stilton, place it in the refrigerator for a 24 hour period.
As a rule, keep cheese in the refrigerator, (it’s always better to store as close to the bottom of the fridge as possible-the vegetable compartment is ideal), and remove 30 minutes to an hour before serving, as it is best enjoyed at room temperature. 
Using Blue Stilton. •Blue Stilton is a versatile and easy to use ingredient in a variety of starters and main courses-a little goes a long way. For Stilton Recipe ideas visit our recipe section. •Like all good cheeses Blue Stilton is best served at room temperature (20 degrees C or 68 degrees F). Stilton filo parcels-Place slices of Stilton on 3 or 4 layers of filo pastry. Fold into neat parcels and bake in a hot oven for 10-15 minutes-perfect party food! 8. Stilton jackets-Instead of butter, mix a little Stilton with potato scooped from a halved jacket potato and put back into the skins and cook until melted.
it all depends....if its on the fridge,you can keep it as long as the date on the bottom is and if its not in the fridge max. 4 days without it molding. Edit. Share to: Robin Harris. 521,978 Contributions. I have a passion for cooking and have spent many years mastering the art. Food left out of the refrigerator is okay to eat for about 2 hours. If the temperature is under 80 degrees. The longer a food stays in the danger zone the more risk you take e … ating that food. Foods should either be kept hot or kept cold before eating to be really safe.
1 Stilton will keep in the crisper of your refrigerator for about 4 weeks if you check it occasionally and replace the wrap to avoid any collected moisture or browned rind. 2  If you believe it will be longer than 4 weeks before you might enjoy your Stilton, you can freeze it. 1 Take your cling film segments and wrap them with another layer of aluminum foil. 2  These parcels may be kept in the freeze for 6 to 10 weeks. 3  When you defrost Stilton, place it in the refrigerator for a 24 hour period.
1 For best results after opening, wrap cheese first in wax or parchment paper and then cover with plastic wrap. 2  If surface mold that is not a normal part of the manufacturing process appears on the Stilton, cut away 1 inch around and below the moldy surface area and re-cover the cheese in fresh wrap. 1 Keep cheese refrigerated. 2 
For block cheeses, the more moisture a cheese has in its consistency, the less time it will … keep. Fresh mozzarella generally will last a week to 10 days before it starts to spoil. The life span of cream cheese can be determined by the expiration date; after it's been opened, you have about two weeks to use it. Food left out of the refrigerator is okay to eat for about 2 hours. If the temperature is under 80 degrees. The longer a food stays in the danger zone the more risk you take e … ating that food. Foods should either be kept hot or kept cold before eating to be really safe.
1 When ready to serve, take Stilton out and with the wrapping on, but loosened, bring the cheese to room temperature (70F or 20C) for best flavor. 2  If you are the proud recipient of several pounds of Stilton, it may be best to slice it into 6 ounce pieces and wrap individually with several layers of clear film. 1 Take your cling film segments and wrap them with another layer of aluminum foil. 2  These parcels may be kept in the freeze for 6 to 10 weeks. 3  When you defrost Stilton, place it in the refrigerator for a 24 hour period.