Definition of Savanna Grasslands Biome. Biomes are large, naturally occurring communities of plants and animals occupying a major habitat. The savanna grasslands are terrestrial biomes characterized by vast open spaces containing occasional small shrubs and trees. 
The Grassland Biomes: There are two main types of grassland biomes: the Savanna Grasslands and the Temperate Grasslands. The Tundra Biomes: There are two major tundra biomes—The Artic Tundra and the Alpine Tundra. Biomes play a crucial role in sustaining life on earth. For example, the Aquatic biome is home to millions of fish species and the source of the water cycle. It also plays a very important role in climate formation. The terrestrial biomes provide foods, enrich the air with oxygen and absorb carbon dioxide and other bad gases from the air. 
An example of mutualism in a desert biome is the desert is the  relationship between Saguaro cacti and the Gila woodpecker. This  bird finds food like parasites and insects … on the cactus. It also  nests on cacti. A good example of mutualism in the grassland biome is that of a bird eating ticks off a buffalo, where the bird will be fed, and the buffalo will be parasite free. 10 people found this useful.
One example of commensalism in the tundra biome can be seen between  the caribou or reindeer and the arctic fox. A good example of mutualism in the grassland biome is that of a bird eating ticks off a buffalo, where the bird will be fed, and the buffalo will be parasite free. 10 people found this useful.
PLANTS: Plants and algae are important to freshwater biomes because they provide oxygen through photosynthesis, and food for animals in this biome. Yum, delicious algae. In fact, that slimy scum you see on the surface of a pond or lake is lunch for many of your favorite aquatic animals, like turtles. 
Biomes are regions of the world with similar climate (weather, temperature) animals and plants. There are terrestrial biomes (land) and aquatic biomes, both freshwater and marine. Would you like to know what the weather is like in different biomes around the world? 
Some of the popular terrestrial biomes include the tundra biome, the forest biome, the grassland biome, and the desert biome. Tundra biomes are extremely cold and have very harsh conditions. They include areas of Russian and the Arctic. Only a few types of plants and animals are able to survive here. There are quite a few different types of biomes in the world. Each of them has unique characteristics. Due to the climate and features, there are different plants and animals that are able to thrive in them.
(An ecosystem is the community of plants and animals in an area considered together with their environment.) The nature of a biome is determined primarily by climate, including a region's annual average temperature and amount of rainfall. Biomes are often named for the vegetation found within them. Urban-industrial techno-ecosystems. The urban-industrial techno-ecosystem consists of a large metropolitan district that is dominated by humans, human dwellings, businesses, factories, other types of buildings, and roads. This biome supports many species in addition to humans.
Introduction to Biomes. Biomes are the major regional groupings of plants and animals discernible at a global scale. Their distribution patterns are strongly correlated with regional climate patterns and identified according to the climax vegetation type. The biome concept embraces the idea of community, of interaction among vegetation, animal populations, and soil. A biome (also called a biotic area) may be defined as a major region of distinctive plant and animal groups well adapted to the physical environment of its distribution area.
Major biomes include deserts, forests, grasslands, tundra, and several types of aquatic environments. Each biome consists of many ecosystems whose communities have adapted to the small differences in climate and the environment inside the biome. All living things are closely related to their environment. 