Usually starting between April and June, the new shoots emerge from ground and reach their full height in 2 to 3 months. For example, a young bamboo that is about 8 feet tall with 4 canes, may produce 3 additional new shoots in the spring that grow to 10 feet, within two months time. Next spring those 7 canes will produce about 5 to 10 new shoots that could reach 15 feet. 
Grows as much as 10-12 feet a year! Bamboo is one of the fastest growing privacy plants you can find. Plant your bamboo every 3 to 5 feet, depending on how quickly you want a thick screen. Your Black Bamboo will grow 15 to 25 feet, but can be trimmed to any height you want. Black Bamboo is the most demanded variety. But some black varieties are not as cold tolerant as others.
Bamboo can grow to conform to whatever space it is given; a long narrow planter, will produce a long, narrow screen, of moderate height, but most likely not full height. Some bamboo will size up better in small areas; for example P. vivax and P. dulcis can grow over 20 feet tall in a 30 inch wide planter. In a container, bamboo won t grow as tall, usually about 1/2 to 3/4 of its max height. It will also require more watering in the summer than if it was in the ground. We often water our bamboo as much as once a day during extreme heat, but in more reasonable weather we water usually every 2-3 days.
It depends on how big you want the bamboo to grow. Dedicate at least 3 feet by 3 feet for the Clumpers (12 feet circumference), and 3 feet by 10 feet for the Runners (26 feet circumference), to get reasonably close to mature height. The more space the better. In a container, bamboo won t grow as tall, usually about 1/2 to 3/4 of its max height. It will also require more watering in the summer than if it was in the ground. We often water our bamboo as much as once a day during extreme heat, but in more reasonable weather we water usually every 2-3 days.
Growth Rate. In the ground, black bamboo grows 3 to 5 feet in height every year, eventually reaching heights of 20 to 35 feet. Container-grown plants, however, typically reach only one-half to three-quarters of their normal size. Running bamboo spreads at a rate of 3 to 5 feet per year. Black bamboo (Phyllostachys nigra) is a tall, attractive, black-culmed bamboo grown in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 7 through 10. When planted in containers, black bamboo can be overwintered indoors or left outside
Overview. Black Bamboo (Phyllostachys Nigra) is a large and striking species of bamboo. As it grows, the bamboo plant develops deep green (almost black) stalks, 2 inches in diameter, and bright green leaves. Black bamboo is a jumbo species of bamboo, which means it can grow up to 30 feet tall. Although popular for its beauty, black bamboo can be difficult to control. The plant thrives in temperate zones (gardening zones 6 and 7) with mild weather condition
Taller running types, like Phyllostachys, usually grow 3-5 feet in height per year. Older, more established plants, usually at least 3 years in the ground, will grow faster than newly planted ones. Placement and care will influence how fast and tall a bamboo will grow. In a container, bamboo won t grow as tall, usually about 1/2 to 3/4 of its max height. It will also require more watering in the summer than if it was in the ground. We often water our bamboo as much as once a day during extreme heat, but in more reasonable weather we water usually every 2-3 days.
The smallest is dwarf black bamboo (Chimonobambusa marmorea), which grows 2 to 6 feet tall with culms 1/2 inch in diameter. Dwarf black bamboo grows in USDA zones 8b and 9a. One of the largest species of black bamboo, Timor black bamboo (Bambusa lako), can reach 70 feet tall. Timor black bamboo is partially salt tolerant. It is nearly matched by giant black bamboo (Gigantochlea atroviolacea), which grows 30 to 6
The stems of black bamboos grow in green and it may take two to three years for them to turn black. Running black bamboo (Phyllostachys nigra) is the black bamboo you're most likely to find at the garden center. It grows 20 to 35 feet high in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 7 through 10. One of the largest species of black bamboo, Timor black bamboo (Bambusa lako), can reach 70 feet tall. Timor black bamboo is partially salt tolerant. It is nearly matched by giant black bamboo (Gigantochlea atroviolacea), which grows 30 to 6