ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. It is one of the end products of photophosphorylation, cellular respiration, and fermentation and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division. ATP is consumed in the cell by energy-requiring (endergonic) processes and can be generated by energy-releasing (exergonic) processes. In this way ATP transfers energy between spatially separate metabolic reactions. ATP is the main energy source for the majority of cellular functions.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme. It is often called the molecular unit of currency of intracellular energy transfer.[1] ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. Three phosphate groups are attached at the 5' carbon atom of the pentose sugar. It is the addition and removal of these phosphate groups that inter-convert ATP, ADP and AMP. When ATP is used in DNA synthesis, the ribose sugar is first converted to deoxyribose by ribonucleotide reductase.
Report Abuse. produced in the cristae of mitochondria, ATP is the energy source of our cells without ATP, life as we know it would cease to exist because WE would cease to exist Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme. Three phosphate groups are attached at the 5' carbon atom of the pentose sugar. It is the addition and removal of these phosphate groups that inter-convert ATP, ADP and AMP. When ATP is used in DNA synthesis, the ribose sugar is first converted to deoxyribose by ribonucleotide reductase.
adenosine diphosphate (ADP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-pyrophosphate, produced by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). It is then converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. adenosine monophosphate (AMP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-phosphate, involved in energy metabolism and nucleotide synthesis. Called also adenylic acid. adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) a term used to refer to the enzymatic activity of certain intercellular processes that split ATP to form ADP and inorganic phosphate, when the energy released is not used for the synthesis of chemical compounds.
ATP is a chemical substance that the cell uses to store energy(it stores energy in the bonds between phosphates groups, and releases it at hidrolysis). Search the forum for the chemical formula(search button). ATP is formed in cellular respiration. Google cellular respiration for details. ATP releases energy and turns into ADP(loses A phosphate), or in some cases it can lose 2 phosphates and turn into AMP. Yes, it can be recharged. ADP turns into ATP in cell respiration. ATP is needed for all active methabolic processes.
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine Triphosphate. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
1 Chemically, ATP is an adenine nucleotide bound to three phosphates. 2  There is a lot of energy stored in the bond between the second and third phosphate groups that can be used to fuel chemical reactions. 3  When a cell needs energy, it breaks this bond to form adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and a free phosphate molecule. 1 When the cell has excess energy, it stores this energy by forming ATP from ADP and phosphate. 2  ATP is required for the biochemical reactions involved in any muscle contraction. 3  As the work of the muscle increases, more and more ATP gets consumed and must be replaced in order for the muscle to keep moving.
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine Triphosphate. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the biochemical way to store and use energy. F or your muscles -- in fact, for every cell in your body -- the source of energy that keeps everything going is called ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the biochemical way to store and use energy. 1 When the cell has excess energy, it stores this energy by forming ATP from ADP and phosphate. 2  ATP is required for the biochemical reactions involved in any muscle contraction. 3  As the work of the muscle increases, more and more ATP gets consumed and must be replaced in order for the muscle to keep moving.