Now, we're gonna use our crochet hook to add these into the scarf. Starting from either end. Insert your crochet hook into a loop, and there's no right or wrong loop to do this, really, just whatever you want to. Fold your fringe in half and now you'll use the crochet hook to pull that fringe right through your scarf. Bring it up until you have enough room in this loop to push through the ends. You want to make sure that you get all the pieces that you wanna use. All you have to do then is just pull it tight
Snip through the loop; then pull the fringe strands out of the scarf. Once you've removed the fringe, you may see some distortion or gapping between stitches. Except in the most extreme cases, that's easily fixed by re-blocking the piece: Moisten the yarn and pin it back into shape on a blocking board or thick towel. Cut half as many yarn pieces as the number of strands you want in the finished fringe; each piece of yarn should be twice as long as the finished fringe. So, if you want the finished fringe to be six strands of 5-inch-long yarn, you should cut three strands of yarn that are each 10 inches long.
How to Add Fringe to a Scarf. Learn how to add fringe to a scarf in this knitting tutorial from Howcast. So once you’ve finished the scarf a really fun way to make it a little more exciting at the end is to add some fringe
And you need your extra yarn. If you want your fringe to be 4 inches, you need to make your cardboard eight, and that will give you a 4 inch fringe because once you cut one end of the fringe you're going to fold it in half and you're going to have your four inches. Preparing Fringe for Crochet Projects. In order to put your fringe you need your completed piece of work, you need your crochet hook, you need your scissors, you need a cardboard, cut to the size length that you want your fringe to be.
How to add fringe to a scarf, or anything else that is crying out for it. Here is a link to the pattern I used for the scarf (not my design): http://www.yarnharlot.ca/blog/archive... The pattern link to the green scarf I'm wearing: http://www.ravelry.com/patterns/libra... 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Gather the lengths of yarn together and fold them in half. Insert hook into stitch or space where you want to place the tassel or fringe. Insert your hook into the middle of the folded-up lengths of yarn (like you would do to a loop when crocheting). Pull up all the pieces of yarn through the stitch or space. 
How to Make Fringe for a Scarf. Sometimes you will want to add fringe to your knitted scarves. Follow the steps below for an easy way to make fringe. 1  Wind the yarn around cardboard about the length you want, as above. 2  Cut at one end. 3  Fold the strands in half. and pull through the scarf using a crochet hook. 4  Do this for the width of the scarf or whereever you want fringe. Follow the steps below for an easy way to make fringe. 1  Wind the yarn around cardboard about the length you want, as above. 2  Cut at one end. 3  Fold the strands in half. and pull through the scarf using a crochet hook. 4  Pull through the loop to secure.
Attaching the Fringe. To create six-strand fringe, hold your three strands of double-length yarn together and double them over, creating a loop on one end. Poke that loop through the stitch where you want to attach the fringe; then pull the ends of the gathered strands through the loop. Cut half as many yarn pieces as the number of strands you want in the finished fringe; each piece of yarn should be twice as long as the finished fringe. So, if you want the finished fringe to be six strands of 5-inch-long yarn, you should cut three strands of yarn that are each 10 inches long.
How to Add Fringe to a Crochet or Knit Project. Adding fringe to a knitted or crocheted scarf, blanket, or poncho is easy and fun to do. Plus, it adds a finished touch to your project. Click on any photo to see a larger view. Insert your crochet hook into the first loop from the bottom up. 10. Take the two pieces of yarn folded in half, hook them with the crochet hook and pull them through the loop. 11. Take the ends of the two pieces of yarn and push them through the loop made by folding the two pieces in half.