Sunflower oil is a non-volatile oil extracted from the seeds of sunflowers. It is commonly used as a cooking oil as well as in cosmetic formulations due to its emollient properties. Its nutritious composition makes it one of the healthiest oils for consumption as well as application on the skin and the hair. There are basically two types of sunflower seeds – confection sunflower seeds and non-oil sunflower seeds. Confection sunflower seeds are edible and are used for the extraction of oil whereas non-oil sunflower seeds are used for feeding animals and are not suitable for human consumption.
The sunflower is the state flower of Kansas. That is why Kansas is sometimes called the Sunflower State. To grow well, sunflowers need full sun. They grow best in fertile, wet, well-drained soil with a lot of mulch. In commercial planting, seeds are planted 45 cm (1.5 ft) apart and 2.5 cm (1 in) deep. 
For other uses, see Sunflower (disambiguation) . Helianthus or sunflowers (from the Greek: ήλιος, Hēlios, sun and ανθός, anthos, flower) L. /ˌhiːliˈaenθəs/ ˌhiːliˈænθəs is a genus of plants comprising about 70 species in the Family, asteraceae all of which are native To North america except three species In South. america The genus is one of many in the Asteraceae that are known as sunflowers. It is distinguished technically by the fact that the ray flowers, when present, are sterile, and by the presence on the disk flowers of a pappus that is of two awn-like scales that are caducous (that is, easily detached and falling at maturity).
Sunflower oil is pressed from the seeds of the sunflower. The oil is used as medicine. Sunflower oil is used for constipation and lowering “bad” LDL cholesterol. Some people apply sunflower oil directly to the skin for poorly healing wounds, skin injuries, psoriasis, and arthritis; and as a massage oil. 
Sunflower seeds are the gift of the beautiful sunflower, a plant with rays of petals emanating from its bright yellow, seed-studded center. The sunflower's Latin scientific name, Helianthus annuus, reflects its solar appearance since helios is the Greek word for sun, and anthos is the Greek word for flower. Sunflower seeds are the gift of the beautiful sunflower that has rays of petals emanating from its bright yellow, seed-studded center. The flower produces grayish-green or black seeds encased in tear-dropped shaped gray or black shells that oftentimes feature black and white stripes.
Noun. 1. sunflower-any plant of the genus Helianthus having large flower heads with dark disk florets and showy yellow rays. helianthus. flower-a plant cultivated for its blooms or blossoms. genus Helianthus-genus of tall erect or branched American annual or perennial herbs with showy flowers: sunflowers. 
The tallest sunflower on record achieved 9.17 metres (30.1 ft). Sunflower leaves are broad, coarsely toothed, rough and mostly alternate. What is often called the  flower  of the sunflower is actually a  flower head  or pseudanthium of numerous small individual five-petaled flowers ( florets ). The outer flowers, which resemble petals, are called ray flowers. Each petal consists of a ligule composed of fused petals of an asymmetrical ray flower. 
Helianthus. Species. annuus. The large, solitary Sunflower blossom, sometimes as large as a meter in diameter, is composed of yellow ray flowers and a central disk.n The Central disk is composed of either yellow, brown, or purple flowers, depending on the species. 