Add the pork chops and sear them in the hot pan. Sear the chops for 2 minutes on each side, or until each side is well-browned. 1  Pork chops are notorious for drying out when cooked, but there are a few ways to prevent this. 2  Searing the meat is one of the simplest ways.
1 Add the pork chops and the sliced onions to the pan. 2  Brown the chops for about 4 minutes on each side, until the meat is pink throughout. 3  Reduce heat to low. 4  Use a thermometer to check the doneness of the meat. 5  We recommend cooking the chops at a doneness of medium, which is an internal temperature of about 160 degrees.
3. Add the pork chops and sear them in the hot pan. Cook the chops for 2 minutes on each side in the hot oil, or until each side is notably browned. 1  The process of searing and braising pork chops on the stove can go a long way in preventing the meat from drying out.
Cook until done. Lower the heat to medium, cover the skillet, and let the chops cook for another 5 to 10 minutes. 1  To accurately determine whether or not the pork chops are safe to eat, check the center of the thickest chop with a meat thermometer.
Step 3. Place the pork chops on the hot grill pan and cook for about 8 to 10 minutes on each side, until the pork has slightly charred grill marks and has reached an internal temperature of at least 145 F. Use tongs to lift the pork chops and grill the sides as well.
1 Let sit on counter top for 30 minutes. 2  Place oil in large cast iron skillet (or heavy stainless steel skillet) and heat until medium hot. 3  Place chops in the pan, placing them so they don't touch each other. 4  Cook each side slowly (lower heat if necessary) until nice and golden brown on each side.
1 Place oil in large cast iron skillet (or heavy stainless steel skillet) and heat until medium hot. 2  Place chops in the pan, placing them so they don't touch each other. 3  Cook each side slowly (lower heat if necessary) until nice and golden brown on each side. 4  This will take about 4 minutes per side.