The Assistant Majority and Minority Leaders of the United States Senate (commonly called Senate Majority and Minority Whips) are the second-ranking members of the party leadership of the United States Senate. John Worth Kern (December 20, 1849 – August 17, 1917) was a Democratic United States Senator from Indiana. While the title was not official, he is considered to be the first Senate party leader (and in turn, the first Senate Democratic Leader), while serving concurrently as Chairman of the Senate Democratic Caucus.
The Senate is currently composed of 54 Republicans, 44 Democrats, and 2 independents, both of whom caucus with the Democrats. The current leaders are Republican Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Democratic Minority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada. John Worth Kern (December 20, 1849 – August 17, 1917) was a Democratic United States Senator from Indiana. While the title was not official, he is considered to be the first Senate party leader (and in turn, the first Senate Democratic Leader), while serving concurrently as Chairman of the Senate Democratic Caucus.
The current Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, of the United States House of Representatives serves as floor leader of the opposition party, and is the counterpart to the Majority Leader. Unlike the Majority Leader, the Minority Leader is on the ballot for Speaker of the House during the convening of the Congress. Like the Speaker of the House, the Minority Leaders are typically experienced lawmakers when they win election to this position. When Nancy Pelosi, D-CA, became Minority Leader in the 108th Congress, she had served in the House nearly 20 years and had served as minority whip in the 107th Congress.
WASHINGTON — Three decades after arriving in the capital city as the junior senator from Kentucky, Mitch McConnell on Tuesday became the U.S. Senate's majority leader and, with House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio, one of the two most powerful Republicans in the nation. Three decades after arriving in the capital city as the junior senator from Kentucky, Mitch McConnell on Tuesday became the U.S. Senate's majority leader and
Republican U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky served as the Senate Republican leader in the 113th Congress. Like the Senate majority leader, the minority leader is elected be members of his party to represent them on the floor. The minority leader also serves as a spokesman for their party's position. The majority leader also serves as a spokesman for their party's position and for the Senate as a whole. One of the primary roles of the majority leader is to manage the Senate schedule. Republican U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
McConnell takes the reins as Senate majority leader. Three decades after arriving in the capital city as the junior senator from Kentucky, Mitch McConnell on Tuesday became the U.S. Senate's majority leader and one of the two most powerful Republicans in the nation.
The Senate Majority and Minority Leaders are two United States Senators who are elected by the party caucuses that hold the majority and the minority respectively. John Worth Kern (December 20, 1849 – August 17, 1917) was a Democratic United States Senator from Indiana. While the title was not official, he is considered to be the first Senate party leader (and in turn, the first Senate Democratic Leader), while serving concurrently as Chairman of the Senate Democratic Caucus.
For these reasons, it is the Majority Leader who, in practice, manages the Senate. This is in contrast to the House of Representatives where the elected Speaker of the House has a great deal of discretionary power and generally presides over votes on bills. John Worth Kern (December 20, 1849 – August 17, 1917) was a Democratic United States Senator from Indiana. While the title was not official, he is considered to be the first Senate party leader (and in turn, the first Senate Democratic Leader), while serving concurrently as Chairman of the Senate Democratic Caucus.
Senate Majority Leader. The Senate Majority Leader is the highest ranking member of the majority party in the U.S. Senate. A senator is elected to the post at the beginning of each Congress by members of his/her respective party conference. Senate Minority Leader. The Senate Minority Leader is the highest ranking member of the minority party in the U.S. Senate. Similar to the Majority Leader, a
Democratic U.S. Sen. Harry Reid of Nevada served as Senate majority leader in the 113th Congress. The Senate majority leader is elected be members of his party to represent them on the floor. The majority leader also serves as a spokesman for their party's position and for the Senate as a whole. One of the primary roles of the majority leader is to manage the Senate schedule. Republican U.S. Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.