Because it secretes the hormone insulin into blood (endocrine function) and enzymesinto digestive tract (exocrine function) Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/Why_is_pancre … as_considered_as_heterocrine_gland#ixzz1vhhAcANs. gland 1. A cell, a group of cells, or an organ that produces a secretion for use elsewhere in the body or in a body cavity or for elimination from the body. 2.
Norepinephrine-these hormones are Sympathomimetic (they imitate the effects of the sympathetic nervous system and produce fight or flight responses) Pancreas-is both an endocrine and a exocrine gland (heterocrine) - has special areas called islets of Langerhans with four types of cells: 1. 77. Effects of Hormones 1. regulates chemical composition of extracellular fluids. 2. regulate metabolism and energy balance 3. function in the contraction of the heart muscle and visceral muscles.
Medical Definition of HETEROCRINE. : having both an endocrine and an exocrine secretion.
The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands. 
The pancreas is a glandular organ in the upper abdomen, but really it serves as two glands in one: a digestive exocrine gland and a hormone-producing endocrine gland. Microscopic Anatomy. The pancreas is classified as a heterocrine gland because it contains both endocrine and exocrine glandular tissue. The exocrine tissue makes up about 99% of the pancreas by weight while endocrine tissue makes up the other 1%. The exocrine tissue is arranged into many small masses known as acini.
The endocrine system includes the pituitary gland pituitary gland,small oval endocrine gland that lies at the base of the brain. It is sometimes called the master gland of the body because all the other endocrine glands depend on its secretions for stimulation (see endocrine system)...... The regulation of body functions by the endocrine system depends on the existence of specific receptor cells in target organs that respond in specialized ways to the minute quantities of the hormonal messengers. Some endocrine hormones, such as thyroxine thyroxine, substance secreted by the thyroid gland. The hormone thyroxine forms by combining the amino acid tyrosine with iodine. Complexed to a protein, it is stored in the follicle stems between thyroid cells
Endocrine System Endocrine Glands-unlike exocrine glands (which secrete their secretory products into ducts), endocrine gland secrete their products directly into the blood. - Some glands have both an endocrine and exocrine function and are termed heterocrine glands. Some heterocrine glands we will study are: - pancreas-ovaries-testes. 77. Effects of Hormones 1. regulates chemical composition of extracellular fluids. 2. regulate metabolism and energy balance 3. function in the contraction of the heart muscle and visceral muscles.
Merocrine is a term used to classify exocrine glands and their secretions in the study of histology. A cell is classified as merocrine if the secretions of that cell are excreted via exocytosis from secretory cells into an epithelial-walled duct or ducts and thence onto a bodily surface or into the lumen. 