Acute mesenteric ischemia is interruption of intestinal blood flow by embolism, thrombosis, or a low-flow state. It leads to mediator release, inflammation, and ultimately infarction. Abdominal pain is out of proportion to physical findings. 
Intestinal ischemia occurs when the blood flow through the major arteries that supply blood to your intestines slows or stops. The condition has many potential causes, including a blockage in an artery caused by a blood clot, or a narrowing of an artery due to buildup of deposits, such as cholesterol. Whatever the cause, diminished blood flow within your digestive tract leaves cells without enough oxygen, which causes the cells to weaken and die. If damage is severe enough, infection, gangrene and eventually a hole (perforation) in the wall of the intestines can occur. If untreated, intestinal ischemia can be fatal.
This article concerns ischemia of the small bowel. See ischemic colitis for ischemia of the large bowel. Mesenteric ischemia, also known as mesenteric vascular disease, is a medical condition in which injury of the small intestine occurs due to not enough blood supply. It can come on suddenly, known as acute mesenteric ischemia, or gradually, known as chronic mesenteric ischemia. 
Symptoms of acute intestinal ischemia. Signs and symptoms of acute intestinal ischemia typically include: 1  Sudden abdominal pain that may range from mild to severe. 2  An urgent need to have a bowel movement. 3  Frequent, forceful bowel movements. 4  Abdominal tenderness or distention. 5  Blood in your stool. 6  Nausea, vomiting. 7  Fever. 8  Mental confusion in older adults
Acute intestinal ischemia and infarction. Tendler DA. Acute intestinal ischemia is a gastrointestinal emergency resulting from a sudden decrement in intestinal blood flow. It may occur as a consequence of mesenteric vascular occlusion and/or hypoperfusion and may involve the small intestine or colon. 
The presence of non-occlusive acute small intestinal ischemia (from spasm of the blood vessels) may be overshadowed by the other illnesses a patient might have, such as heart failure, hypotension (low blood pressure), a heart attack, or cardiac arrhythmia (irregular heart beat). Most patients with an acute episode of small intestinal ischemia present with the sudden onset of severe abdominal pain. Early in the process, the abdomen is usually soft, flat, and not tender to touch. Most patients with small intestinal ischemia do not have diarrhea or rectal bleeding