The Soft Serve revolution has arrived at thousands of Baskin-Robbins stores, and the systemwide rollout will be complete by next spring. So far, here's my only gripe … there's only vanilla. I'm a chocolate person, and just topping a dish of vanilla with chocolate syrup doesn't do it for me. Soft serve has about 6 percent or 7 percent fat. So we'll call it Soft Serve, even though most people, including me, call it Soft Ice Cream.. Food political correctness … it's dumb. Basically, Baskin-Robbins, while sticking with its 31-plus flavors of hard ice cream, is hopping aboard the Dairy Queen soft train.
Baskin-Robbins, like its competitors, will have an array of dessert treats featuring Soft Serve. It'll have sundaes, 31 Belows (its version of Dairy Queen's Blizzards), creamy fruit smoothies and take-home pies. It even has special Soft Serve cones covered with sugary sprinkles that change colors. Soft serve has about 6 percent or 7 percent fat. So we'll call it Soft Serve, even though most people, including me, call it Soft Ice Cream.. Food political correctness … it's dumb. Basically, Baskin-Robbins, while sticking with its 31-plus flavors of hard ice cream, is hopping aboard the Dairy Queen soft train.
Baskin-Robbins, this will be no surprise, is interested in making a profit. Soft serve accounts for 70 percent of all individual, walk-up ice cream sales in America. The soft serve revolution has arrived at thousands of Baskin-Robbins, and the systemwide rollout will be complete by next spring. So far, and here’s my only gripe, there’s only vanilla. I’m a chocolate person, and just topping a dish of vanilla with chocolate syrup doesn’t do it for me. Baskin-Robbins, like its competitors, will have an array of dessert treats featuring soft serve. They’ll have sundaes, 31 Below (their version of Dairy Queen’s Blizzards), creamy fruit smoothies and take-home pies. They even have special soft serve cones covered with sugary sprinkles that change colors
Baskin-Robbins, this will be no surprise, is interested in making a profit. Soft Serve accounts for 70 percent of all individual, walk-up ice-cream sales in America. Walk-up means people who pop into a dedicated ice-cream shop such as Baskin-Robbins, Marble Slab or Cold Stone Creamery and order a cone or sundae. Soft serve has about 6 percent or 7 percent fat. So we'll call it Soft Serve, even though most people, including me, call it Soft Ice Cream.. Food political correctness … it's dumb. Basically, Baskin-Robbins, while sticking with its 31-plus flavors of hard ice cream, is hopping aboard the Dairy Queen soft train.
This week I reached out for a Vanilla Soft Serve cone at Baskin-Robbins, the world's biggest ice-cream chain, with 6,000 stores across America and around this crazy blue marble. Soft serve has about 6 percent or 7 percent fat. So we'll call it Soft Serve, even though most people, including me, call it Soft Ice Cream.. Food political correctness … it's dumb. Basically, Baskin-Robbins, while sticking with its 31-plus flavors of hard ice cream, is hopping aboard the Dairy Queen soft train.
Make it 31 Flavors, and a softie. Baskin-Robbins, the world's largest ice cream chain, Thursday will announce plans to sell soft-serve ice cream, a risky marketing move that it has resisted since its founding 62 years ago. But after spending six decades telling the world that hand-scooped ice cream is its specialty, Baskin-Robbins walks a fine line trying to suddenly convince folks that it's now a soft-serve specialist.
There's another risk: A regular soft-serve cone at Baskin-Robbins is $1.65, a lot less than the $1.99 for a hand-scooped ice cream cone. But Kimmel says sales did well in test markets and that the majority of consumers in the tests also purchased add-ons such as sprinkles. But after spending six decades telling the world that hand-scooped ice cream is its specialty, Baskin-Robbins walks a fine line trying to suddenly convince folks that it's now a soft-serve specialist.
This week I reached out for a Vanilla Soft Serve cone at Baskin-Robbins, the world’s biggest ice cream chain with 6,000 stores across America and around this crazy blue marble. Baskin-Robbins, like its competitors, will have an array of dessert treats featuring soft serve. They’ll have sundaes, 31 Below (their version of Dairy Queen’s Blizzards), creamy fruit smoothies and take-home pies. They even have special soft serve cones covered with sugary sprinkles that change colors