It will generally take between one to two weeks for a real hard,  red hematoma to go away. Applying ice to the area along with  compression will help speed the healing proce … ss. Usually around 3 to a max of 1 week. Depending on how bad you got sunburnt, the longer it will take. Just apply lots of sunburn cream and aloe vera spray to it. It helps alot. … Try not to peel off your skin.
My son has a hematoma on his right side of his head. Our family doctor said it should go away on it's own and that it is normal because of the baby going through the birth canal. My baby was delivered through c-section. My daughter also received this on her head when the doctor had to auction her out during a routine c section. I was also told multiple times that it would go away. I was worried after months of waiting. She is now 11 months old and atill has the same size hematoma.
Confidence votes 23. Sadly that varies patient to patient. Depending on how big the hematoma is, it can take a week to several weeks to go away. If you have had a hematoma for more than 2 weeks post biopsy, or have redness, oozing at the biopsy site, see your physician immediately to be sure there is no infection. Usually around 3 to a max of 1 week. Depending on how bad you got sunburnt, the longer it will take. Just apply lots of sunburn cream and aloe vera spray to it. It helps alot. … Try not to peel off your skin.
My son was born with a Hematoma on his head (quite large). He is now 22 years old but I saw that some new mothers were writing that they were quite concerned that there baby`s hematoma was not going away right away. «in our experience, it took many, many months for it to completely calcify and absorb into the skull. My daughter also received this on her head when the doctor had to auction her out during a routine c section. I was also told multiple times that it would go away. I was worried after months of waiting. She is now 11 months old and atill has the same size hematoma.
Answers. Best Answer: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hematoma My son fell and smacked his cheek bone and he had a hematoma. It gradually got smaller but but it did take about a month or so to go away and it started out about the size of a piece of paper you would get from using a hole punch. Source(s): kahnedame · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
I would take them to the vet because of that. A hematoma can go away on its own BUT it's not very likely that it would do that (depending on the size) and many times, if left untreated, the hematoma will go away but deform the outer ear. Sanka has had two hematomas on both ear flaps. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. It will generally take between one to two weeks for a real hard, red hematoma to go away. Applying ice to the area along with compression will help speed the healing process. Usually around 3 to a max of 1 week. Depending on how bad you got sunburnt, the longer it will take. Just apply lots of sunburn cream and aloe vera spray to it. It helps alot.
If the hematoma is small, it will take about 1 week to go away. If the hematoma is large it can take several weeks (4-6) to completely clear up. Hematoma will change in color from deep purple to pink-blue to green to yellow and then finally fade. I hope you find this information helpful. I see. Hematoma, by definition, is a collection of blood outside the blood vessel. Sometimes hematoma can be a simple bruise and sometimes it accumulates in a pocket. So what I would recommend is to use ice for the few days and then start applying heat to try and dissolve the blood.
Sadly that varies patient to patient. Depending on how big the hematoma is, it can take a week to several weeks to go away. If you have had a hematoma for more than 2 weeks po … st biopsy, or have redness, oozing at the biopsy site, see your physician immediately to be sure there is no infection. 6 people found this useful. Usually around 3 to a max of 1 week. Depending on how bad you got sunburnt, the longer it will take. Just apply lots of sunburn cream and aloe vera spray to it. It helps alot.
Of course, the only way to know is to see a doctor. Hematoma will resolve on its own within weeks (use ice for the next few days, then heat) but bursitis will not go away on its own and can actually get worse. Usually the fluid from bursitis will need to be drained out with a needle. If the person refuses to see a doctor now, there is no urgency. I see. Hematoma, by definition, is a collection of blood outside the blood vessel. Sometimes hematoma can be a simple bruise and sometimes it accumulates in a pocket. So what I would recommend is to use ice for the few days and then start applying heat to try and dissolve the blood.