In humans mucus is produced by mucous cells found in glands which produce a substance rich in glycoproteins and water. Mucus protects the epithelial cells which are part of the membranes lining the respiratory organs: nasal and sinus cavities, lungs, bronchi, etc. 
In the human digestive system, mucus is used as a lubricant for materials that must pass over membranes, e.g., food passing down the esophagus. A layer of mucus along the inner walls of the stomach is vital to protect the cell linings of that organ from the highly acidic environment within it. Increased mucus production in the respiratory tract is a symptom of many common illnesses, such as the common cold and influenza. Hypersecretion of mucus can occur in inflammatory respiratory diseases such as respiratory allergies, asthma, and chronic bronchitis.
Goblet cells are scattered among the absorptive cells in the epithelium of the small intestine and colon. These epithelial cells are specialized for secretion of mucus, which facilitates passage of material through the bowel. The name goblet refers to the cell's shape, narrow at the base and bulging apically. 
1 Specialized exocrine cells of the mucosa known as mucous cells secrete mucus into the lumen of the stomach and into the gastric pits. 2  This mucus spreads across the surface of the mucosa to coat the lining of the stomach with a thick, acid-and enzyme-resistant barrier. 
In vertebrates, mucus (/mjuːkəs/ MYOO-kəss; adjectival form : mucous) is a slippery secretion produced by, and covering, mucous membranes. Mucous fluid is typically produced from cells found in mucous glands. Mucous cells secrete products that are rich in glycoproteins and water. Mucous fluid may also originate from mixed glands, which contain both serous and mucous cells. Increased mucus production in the respiratory tract is a symptom of many common illnesses, such as the common cold and influenza. Hypersecretion of mucus can occur in inflammatory respiratory diseases such as respiratory allergies, asthma, and chronic bronchitis.
The main role of goblet cells is to secrete mucus in order to protect the mucous membranes where they are found. Goblet cells accomplish this by secreting mucins, large glycoproteins formed mostly by carbohydrates. 
1 sublingual glands-secrete a saliva that is predominantly mucous in character. 2  serous cells, which secrete a watery fluid, essentially devoid of mucus. 3  mucous cells, which produce a very mucus-rich secretion. 1 submaxillary (mandibular) glands-produce a mixed serous and mucous secretion. 2  sublingual glands-secrete a saliva that is predominantly mucous in character. 3  serous cells, which secrete a watery fluid, essentially devoid of mucus. 4
Secretion of Mucus. Secretion of mucus from goblet cells is elicited primarily by irritating stimuli rather than in response to hormones. The lumen of the intestinal tract inevitably contains numerous irritants, and in the lung, such things as dust and smoke are potent inducers of goblet cell secretion. Goblet cells are found scattered among other cells in the epithelium of many organs, especially in the intestinal and respiratory tracts. In some areas, their numbers are rather small relative to other cell types, while in tissues such as the colon, they are much more abundant.
Goblet Cells. The talent of goblet cells is to secrete mucus, a viscous fluid composed primarily of highly glycosylated proteins called mucins suspended in a solution of electrolytes. Goblet cells are found scattered among other cells in the epithelium of many organs, especially in the intestinal and respiratory tracts. In some areas, their numbers are rather small relative to other cell types, while in tissues such as the colon, they are much more abundant.
This mucus serves to protect epithelial cells (the lining of the tubes) in the respiratory, gastrointestinal, urogenital, visual, and auditory systems in mammals; the epidermis in amphibians; and the gills in fish. Increased mucus production in the respiratory tract is a symptom of many common illnesses, such as the common cold and influenza. Hypersecretion of mucus can occur in inflammatory respiratory diseases such as respiratory allergies, asthma, and chronic bronchitis.