The average time for a piercing to heal is 6 weeks but it can take a little longer for some…. wait another week or so and if it still hurts or there is blood than i say you go to the place you got it done and ask them why it is doing this, maybe they can give you something to quicken the healing process!
How long does it take to heal a lip piercing? So long as the lip piercing is performed correctly and proper aftercare is followed and no infection or other hindrance in the healing process occur, most lip piercings require a minimum of six to eight weeks to heal.
No piercing is considered fully healed until it's a year old. Contrary to what you may read, it takes the body a full year to season a piercing to the point where it can be removed for extended periods of time without the risk of the piercing closing.
Healing time is different depending on the part of your body that you get pierced. Some parts are more likely to get infected or have problems. Piercings on your ear lobes usually take about 6-8 weeks to heal. However, piercings on the side of your ear (cartilage) can take anywhere from 4 months to 1 year to heal.
The healing time of a navel/ belly button piercing can take longer due to the irritation of tight clothing. This can cause an infection. Here is a general guideline for how long it takes for certain body piercings to heal. — Ear lobe piercing takes between six to eight weeks to heal.
1 How long does it take for an ear piercing to heal? ...I got a second ear piercing at claire’s about two months ago. 2  I kept the earring on for 6 weeks and cleaned it with the antiseptic like they said to.
Until the piercing has healed, taking the earring post out of the hole will only expose your raw tissue to infection. For ear piercings, the healing process typically takes 6-8 weeks. During that time, you must wear the earring you put into your new piercing at all times or risk a painful
As we have said the time frame for a newly pierced nose to completely heal varies from 2 to 4 months for nostril piercing and 6 to 8 months for septum piercings. Swelling and other symptoms that appear immediately after the piercing is done however normally go away in 10 to 15 days.
Keep the same earring on till it’s completely healed. I have 6 ear piercings n all took different lengths of time to heal. Longest was on the cartilage on the top lobe. About 6 months. My belly ring took over 6 months n my nose ring nearly 1 year. Depends how irritated it gets.