Solar panels will be installed on floating platforms which will be anchored firmly to avoid undulation of the panels around the surface of the water. Capital cost for this floating installation is approximately $1.18 Million per MW with power generation cost of Rs 7 ($0.13) per unit. 2. The Capacity Utilisation Factor (CUF) in solar PV plants was very low, usually not more than 12 percent the world over. Even assuming a higher CUF of 15 percent, a plant of 50 MW can at best generate 66 million units per annum. That takes the cost of generation to Rs 10.40 per unit.
Solar energy is the cheapest. The cost per unit is only about 15 paise. The life of a solar water heater is about 20 years. While the initial cost may be high, in the long run, it turns out to be a fraction of what we pay for other forms of electricity. Of late, there has been an increase in generation of renewable energy like solar and wind energy. Among the traditional methods, less than 5,000MW of hydro-electric power is generated all over the country. Thermal power generates around 85,000MW, which is the highest.
That dramatic fall in the price of a unit of electricity is largely due to the sharp decline in the prices of photovoltaic cells, or solar panels. “The cost of importing one watt [of photovoltaic power generation capacity] is now just $1, compared to $2 just over a year ago, and down from $4 in 2008. That decline is quite noteworthy,” said Mehboob.
The levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) is a measure of a power source which attempts to compare different methods of electricity generation on a comparable basis. The levelized cost of electricity (LCOE), also known as Levelized Energy Cost (LEC), is the net present value of the unit-cost of electricity over the lifetime of a generating asset. It is often taken as a proxy for the average price that the generating asset must receive in a market to break even over its lifetime.
Capital costs. A kilowatt is a unit of electrical power capacity. According to a U.S. Energy Information Administration, or EIA, report published in April 2013, the cost of building a utility-grade—greater than 150 MW (megawatt)—solar power plant was $3,873 per KW (kilowatt).
Price bids in conventional power have been up to Rs 5 per unit, says Sanjay Chakrabarti, partner (clean energy), Ernst & Young. Keeping that as the grid parity price, wind power has already achieved grid parity and solar is quite close.. The panels generate solar power during the day and store it in batteries. In the night, this power is released for seven hours to houses connected to the grid. Households pay Rs 120 per month to run two bulbs, one fan and a mobilecharging point.
For 2012-13, Delhi's power utilities were projecting to buy conventional power at an average unit price of Rs 5.71. In other words, at Rs 6.5, solar is just 14 per cent above thermal. The panels generate solar power during the day and store it in batteries. In the night, this power is released for seven hours to houses connected to the grid. Households pay Rs 120 per month to run two bulbs, one fan and a mobilecharging point.
Given that, the subsidies add up to considerable amounts of money. The total increase is still only a small fraction of the cost of the energy. In 2007, subsidies for wind and solar power per megawatt hour were $23 and $24 respectively. That obviously dwarfs the subsidies for conventional sources and it means that electricity from these sources costs considerably more. A megawatt hour from coal would cost $120.44. Here are the numbers for 2010: For solar power, they were $775.64 per megawatt hour, for wind $56.29, for nuclear $3.14, for hydroelectric power $0.82, for coal $0.64 and for natural gas and petroleum liquids $0.64. That means that wind energy is now costing over $170 per unit. Solar power is off the charts at almost $900
A solar power plant is one of the cheapest to operate because there are no fuel costs involved. A solar PV (photovoltaic) power plant requires fixed expenses of $11.40 per megawatt hour, or just 1.14 cents per unit. According to a U.S. Energy Information Administration, or EIA, report published in April 2013, the cost of building a utility-grade—greater than 150 MW (megawatt)—solar power plant was $3,873 per KW (kilowatt).