Info from medicinenetCalcium is generally well tolerated. High levels of calcium can cause some adverse effects. Notify your doctor if you experience any of the following symptoms: nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, constipation, stomach pain, thirst, dry mouth, increased urination. The joint pained returned. So I decided to add high calcium food to my diet such as collard greens, tofu, chia seeds -- all vegetable -- and the joint pain returned. A vitamin D supplement caused the joint pain too.
In addition to causing muscle pain and weakness, calcium supplements may interact with certain drugs, such as certain antacids, blood pressure medications and corticosteroids. Let your doctor know if you experience symptoms of hypercalcemia, especially if you have been taking calcium supplements. Hypercalcemia. Calcium helps your muscles function properly. Although calcium supplements can help prevent a nutritional deficiency, excessive amounts may cause hypercalcemia, a condition that commonly causes muscle weakness. Both men and women generally require between 1,000 and 1,200 milligrams of calcium per day
If you have hypercalcemia, you may also experience pain in your muscles as well as the area around your joints. Too much calcium can also lead to constipation, lethargy, abdominal pain and excessive thirst. Older people generally experience more muscle pain and weakness than younger people, according to MayoClinic.com. Hypercalcemia. Calcium helps your muscles function properly. Although calcium supplements can help prevent a nutritional deficiency, excessive amounts may cause hypercalcemia, a condition that commonly causes muscle weakness. Both men and women generally require between 1,000 and 1,200 milligrams of calcium per day
Patients receive letrozole PO QD. Patients, who experience muscle pain, joint pain, or joint stiffness that requires an intervention and who are found to be vitamin D deficient, also receive calcium and vitamin D3 PO. Treatment continues for up to 28 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive letrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD). Patients, who experience muscle pain, joint pain, or joint stiffness that requires an intervention and who are found to be vitamin D deficient, also receive calcium PO
While your body usually removes excess amounts of dietary calcium through urine excretion, taking too many supplements can cause calcium to build up in your bloodstream. Natural sources of calcium include cheese, low-fat milk and yogurt, broccoli, almonds, dark leafy greens, oysters, canned salmon and tofu. Hypercalcemia. Calcium helps your muscles function properly. Although calcium supplements can help prevent a nutritional deficiency, excessive amounts may cause hypercalcemia, a condition that commonly causes muscle weakness. Both men and women generally require between 1,000 and 1,200 milligrams of calcium per day
There is allot of talk out there about how too much calcium can cause joint pain and even increase the risk of arthritis. You might be getting enough already from your diet – check with your doctor. Magnesium is really good for joint pain and can help balance the calcium in your body. The joint pained returned. So I decided to add high calcium food to my diet such as collard greens, tofu, chia seeds -- all vegetable -- and the joint pain returned. A vitamin D supplement caused the joint pain too.
Tetany is a nervous condition caused by calcium deficiency that is also characterized by muscle cramps, chronic pain, and numbness or tingling in your appendages. Additionally, calcium deposits can grow to a point where they interfere with muscles and create chronic pain with movement. It isn’t uncommon for a simple calcium deficiency to become far more complex when it begins to cause heart palpitations, muscle cramps, insomnia, chronic pain and an overall feeling of discomfort associated with activity. These are actually the signs of a serious calcium deficiency.
I have a similar issue with calcium. About 20 years ago, I thought it was milk products that were causing a multitude of symptoms, for example, joint pain (especially in hands, wrist, hip, shoulder, back), night sweats, frequent urination, fatigue and inflamed gums. The joint pained returned. So I decided to add high calcium food to my diet such as collard greens, tofu, chia seeds -- all vegetable -- and the joint pain returned. A vitamin D supplement caused the joint pain too.
Sufficient calcium and potassium in your diet may reduce leg cramps. Photo Credit Image Source/Stockbyte/Getty Images. A leg cramp, or charley horse, occurs when a leg muscle suddenly tightens, causing pain that at times can be severe. Lack of either calcium or potassium can be the cause of cramps in the legs. The minerals calcium and potassium are electrolytes, meaning they carry electrical impulses that control the muscl