Small intestine. The small intestine is made up of the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. Together with the esophagus, large intestine, and the stomach, it forms the gastrointestinal tract. In living humans, the small intestine alone measures about 6 to 7 meters long. After death, this length can increase by up to half. 
It is the part of the digestive tract where approx 90% of the digestion and absorption of food occurs, the other 10% taking place in the stomach and large intestine. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals. That is, absorption of the nutrients and minerals in the food ingested, usually via the mouth, at an earlier stage in the digestive process. 
The small intestine or small bowel is the part of the gastrointestinal tract between the stomach and the large intestine, and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place. The small intestine has three distinct regions – the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. It receives bile and pancreatic juice through the pancreatic duct, controlled by the sphincter of Oddi. The primary function of the small intestine is the absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. This article is primarily about the human gastrointestinal tract.
The small intestine is a tubular structure within the abdominal cavity that carries the food in continuation with the stomach up to the colon from where the large intestine carries it to the rectum and out of the body via the anus. The main function of this organ is to aid in digestion. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. Digestion involves two distinct parts. The first is mechanical digestion by chewing, grinding, churning and mixing that takes place in the mouth and the stomach.
The digestive system is made up of a number of parts, each of which plays a role in digestion. Food first enters your mouth, then goes down your esophagus into your stomach. After leaving your stomach, the food enters your small intestine, then your large intestine before it leaves the body. Function of the Small Intestine. The small intestine is responsible for absorbing most of the nutrients found within your food. By the time ingested food reaches the small intestine, it has been mechanically broken down into a liquid.
The jejunum is the next part of the small bowel. It's about 10 to 15 feet long and leads to the ileum, which is about 10 feet long. The last part of the ileum is called the terminal ileum, which is very important in Crohn's disease and is responsible for B12 absorption. In the ileum, which is the last part of the small intestine, water and nutrients (such as vitamin B12) are absorbed. Bile, which is released by the gallbladder into the duodenum in order to help emulsify (digest) ingested fats, is reabsorbed in the ileum to prevent its loss from the body.
Best Answer: The Small Intestine (small in diameter compared to the large intestine) is divided into three sections (duodenum, jejunum & ileum). The duodenum, about 25 cm (10 in) long, receives chyme from the stomach through the pyloric sphincter. 
The intestines are a long, continuous tube running from the stomach to the anus. Most absorption of nutrients and water happen in the intestines. The intestines include the small intestine, large intestine, and rectum. The small intestine (small bowel) is about 20 feet long and about an inch in diameter. Its job is to absorb most of the nutrients from what we eat and drink. Velvety tissue lines the small intestine, which is divided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The large intestine (colon or large bowel) is about 5 feet long and about 3 inches in diameter. The colon absorbs water from wastes, creating stool.
Parts of the Small Intestine. The small intestine has three parts: the duodenum, the jejunum and the ileum. The duodenum is the first portion of the small intestine, and it receives the contents of the stomach. Function of the Small Intestine. The small intestine is responsible for absorbing most of the nutrients found within your food. By the time ingested food reaches the small intestine, it has been mechanically broken down into a liquid.
Functions of the small intestine. The small intestine is the part of the intestines where 90% of the digestion and absorption of food occurs, the other 10% taking place in the stomach and large intestine. The main function of the small intestine is absorption of nutrients and minerals from food. Digestion involves two distinct parts. The first is mechanical digestion by chewing, grinding, churning and mixing that takes place in the mouth and the stomach.