Pines anchor themselves with a strong taproot in sandy or well-drained soils. Like other trees, pines grow far-ranging lateral roots that grow outward in the first 1 to 3 feet under the soil's surface. What Pine Trees Want. There's a pine for almost every U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zone, from the lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta), hardy in USDA zones 4 through 9, to the Monterey pine (Pinus radiata), hardy throughout coastal areas in USDA zones 8 through 10.
Image caption The fresh scent of pine trees has a significant impact on climate change. New research suggests a strong link between the powerful smell of pine trees and climate change. Scientists say they've found a mechanism by which these scented vapours turn into aerosols above boreal forests. These particles promote cooling by reflecting sunlight back into space and helping clouds to form. 
Pinus strobus, commonly known as the eastern white pine, white pine, northern white pine, Weymouth pine, and soft pine is a large pine native to eastern North America. The eastern white pine, Pinus strobus, has the distinction of being the tallest tree in eastern North America. In natural pre-colonial stands it is reported to have grown to as tall as 70 m (230 ft).
Oak trees grow deep, strong root systems. There are places where trees don’t belong -- their strong roots can probe the joints in pipes, grow into cracks in foundations and damage underground structures.
Pine trees are very supple, and will bend and sway even in strong winds. But pine trees have very shallow roots, and the trunks are not terribly strong. If they are hit by hurricane-force winds, they may either topple over or simply snap in the middle. Residents of the gulf states know all too well the sight of snapped pine trees after hurricanes. Trees define the different locales. I grew up in Uptown New Orleans, surrounded by lots of oak, magnolia, and pecan trees. “Live oak” trees, covered in Spanish moss, are as emblematic of the City as the Superdome or the St. Louis Cathedral. Those trees are particularly stout and can stand up to a lot.
The tallest known height recorded was a 250′ Eastern White Pine tree noted in a 1760 publication by William Douglass. Lumber from these trees was very light, yet strong. The woodworking properties of the species made it an extremely versatile wood, very easy for a builder to cut, shape and finish. The majestic Eastern White Pine is the tallest of the pine species in North America, basically the Sequoia of the Northeast. Trees 150 to 240 feet tall and trunks free of branches to heights of 80 feet or more were plentiful when the “New World” was being colonized by the England and other Europeans.
With their evergreen privacy and a suggestion of mountain air, pines (Pinus spp.) can transform a city or suburban yard. Plant pine trees in your yard or on the perimeter of your property, not because their roots would damage building foundations, but because the trees' cultural needs dictate an open, sunny location. What Pine Trees Want. There's a pine for almost every U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zone, from the lodgepole pine (Pinus contorta), hardy in USDA zones 4 through 9, to the Monterey pine (Pinus radiata), hardy throughout coastal areas in USDA zones 8 through 10.
PINE TREES AND OAK TREES. Thanks to the coverage of Hurricane Katrina, the rest of the world has been learning a lot about the geography of the New Orleans area. By now, most of you realize that we refer to our counties as parishes. Trees define the different locales. I grew up in Uptown New Orleans, surrounded by lots of oak, magnolia, and pecan trees. “Live oak” trees, covered in Spanish moss, are as emblematic of the City as the Superdome or the St. Louis Cathedral. Those trees are particularly stout and can stand up to a lot.
Scotch pine have strong branches that support abundant decorations heavy ornaments. The needle retention of cut Scotch pine is excellent, better than almost any other Christmas tree species. Unlike most other Christmas tree species, Scotch pine tends to hold its needles even when the tree becomes very dry. White Pine. This year we have a good supply of white pine. The tree is native to eastern North America, and is the second most popular pine Christmas-tree species among Pennsylvania consumers.