The most important vitamins for hair loss are the B group (B6, biotin, and folate for slowing loss, and pantothenic acid and niacin for promoting hair growth). You can get B vitamins through diet as well, by eating such foods as beans, peas, carrots, cauliflower, soybeans, bran, nuts, and eggs. 
Hair loss has many causes, among them a diet deficient in vitamins and minerals. This creates dry skin on the scalp and poor circulation. Hair follicles need proper nutrition to lengthen the anagen cycle, or growth phase, of hair. Vitamin A is most famously found in carrots, but mangoes, oranges, sweet potatoes, and liver are also good sources. While a vitamin A deficiency can cause hair loss, so can too much. Taking in excess of 100,000 IU (international units) per day for several months can also cause hair loss.
Vitamin A helps in the production of sebum, or scalp oil, which keeps the skin on the scalp from thickening. A thick or dry scalp makes it easier for hair to fall out. Vitamin A is most famously found in carrots, but mangoes, oranges, sweet potatoes, and liver are also good sources. While a vitamin A deficiency can cause hair loss, so can too much. Taking in excess of 100,000 IU (international units) per day for several months can also cause hair loss.
Depending on the cause of the hair loss, some vitamins may work better for some people and other vitamins may work better for other people. Try finding a multivitamin with the following vitamins or add foods containing them to your daily diet. Here are the 10 best vitamins for hair regrowth. Biotin is known as the “hair vitamin” for good reason. It promotes hair growth and prevents brittle, fragile hair. Severe biotin deficiency can lead to loss of hair, eyelashes, and eyebrows. (See 5 Best Biotin Supplements to see which ones rate highest according to reviews.).
Hair loss diet. Hair loss vitamins such as Biotin, Niacin (Vitamin B3) and Vitamin C, and minerals for hair loss such as Zinc and Iron, provide essential hair nutrients to nourish healthy and longer hair. Eating enough of these key hair growth vitamins can help prevent hair loss in both men and women. Although some causes of hair loss, such as chemotherapy, illness and medication, may only be moderately affected by a good hair loss diet, in many cases men and women can see great results after only 3-4 months eating more vitamins and minerals for hair growth.
Vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 is one of the most important vitamins for our hair and a deficiency can result in hair loss and premature graying. A surprising number of people are deficient in B12. Including enough vitamin C and iron in your diet will help you body absorb more B12. Biotin is known as the “hair vitamin” for good reason. It promotes hair growth and prevents brittle, fragile hair. Severe biotin deficiency can lead to loss of hair, eyelashes, and eyebrows. (See 5 Best Biotin Supplements to see which ones rate highest according to reviews.).
If you cannot get these nutrients in the foods you eat, try vitamins for hair growth like Viviscal hair growth supplements. Biotin for hair loss. Biotin, also known as B7 or H, is a water-soluble vitamin for hair loss. Biotin has been shown to promote hair growth, thicken the hair strand, and prevent hair loss. Although some causes of hair loss, such as chemotherapy, illness and medication, may only be moderately affected by a good hair loss diet, in many cases men and women can see great results after only 3-4 months eating more vitamins and minerals for hair growth.
If you are truly vitamin deficient, it's important for you to find out which vitamin or vitamins you're lacking, because hair loss would probably be the least of your problems. For example, biotin, a form of B vitamin, is often present in hair-growth supplements. So, the results may be good for the mice, but not necessarily for you. When it comes to vitamins and supplements for hair growth, if you aren't seriously vitamin deficient (and most of us aren't), there are no studies showing any vitamin or mix of vitamins and supplements can change a single thinning hair on your head.
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Hair loss? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Hair loss. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. 
This helps hair to grow and can also be good for the skin. Vitamin A can be taken as a supplement, in foods or rubbed into the scalp and hair in liquid form. For vitamin A, eat foods such as carrots, sweet potatoes, paprika, butternut squash, apricots and cantelope. Stress can cause hair loss, so vitamin B needs to be at optimal levels during stressful times. It is important to take all the B vitamins together in a complex for proper absorption. 1  Vitamin B 12. 2  Vitamin B12 nourishes the hair directly and is a part of the actual hair strands not just the follicles.