Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be used as fuels in cellular respiration, but glucose is most commonly used as an example to examine the reactions and pathways involved. 
Cellular Respiration: is the process that releases energy by breaking down food molecules in the presence of oxygen. Cellular Respiration = Aerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration occurs in the mitochondria. Some of the energy released by breaking food down is stored as ATP, while some is released as heat. ATP is a short-term energy storage molecule all cells use as their energy source. 
Add: The overall products of respiration are carbon dioxide and water. The overall products of photosynthesis are glucose and oxygen. Answer 1: 38 ATP (adenosine triphosphate) are produced through aerobic respiration. 2 ATP are produced through anaerobic respiration. The by-products of photosynthesis are 1 PGAL (sugar phosphate) for every three turns of the Calvin Cycle.
Glucose (sugar) + Oxygen → Carbon dioxide + Water + Energy (as ATP). Cellular respiration is what cells do to break up sugars into a form that the cell can use as energy. This happens in all forms of life. Cellular respiration takes in food and uses it to create ATP, a chemical which the cell uses for energy. 
Cellular waste products are formed as a by-product of cellular respiration, a series of processes and reactions that generate energy for the cell, in the form of ATP. Two examples of cellular respiration creating cellular waste products are aerobic respiration and anaerobic respiration. 
The by-products of cellular respiration are water and carbon  dioxide. The water is produced at the end of the electron transport  chain by the union of oxygen with electron … s and protons (hydrogen  ions) while the carbon dioxide is a by-product of the Kreb's cycle  and pyruvate decarboxylation. As you can see, the products are: In alcohol fermentation (anaerobic), the products are: In lactic acid fermentation (anaerobic), the products are: The products of cellular respiration are glucose, oxygen and carbon dioxide. 1  Carbon dioxide. 2  Water.
The Reaction. During cellular respiration, oxygen and glucose (sugar) are transformed into carbon dioxide and water. Chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is released during the reaction. Glucose is oxidized during cellular respiration to form carbon dioxide. Oxidation releases the energy stored in the chemical bonds of the glucose molecule.
Found This Helpful. Cellular respiration is a chemical reaction that allows cells to convert food energy into chemical energy. All organisms perform some form of cellular respiration, because without the correct form of chemical energy, cells can't perform work to sustain life. Glucose is oxidized during cellular respiration to form carbon dioxide. Oxidation releases the energy stored in the chemical bonds of the glucose molecule.
Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.