Introduction. Mongol leader Genghis Khan (1162-1227) rose from humble beginnings to establish the largest land empire in history. After uniting the nomadic tribes of the Mongolian plateau, he conquered huge chunks of central Asia and China. 
The Mongol Empire emerged from the unification of nomadic tribes in the Mongolia homeland under the leadership of Genghis Khan, who was proclaimed ruler of all Mongols in 1206. The empire grew rapidly under his rule and then under his descendants, who sent invasions in every direction. The Mongol Empire (Mongolian: Mongolyn Ezent Gueren güren (listen·help) ; Info Mongolian: CYRILLIC монголын эзэнт; гүрэн ALSO (орда) horde In russian), chronicles existed during the 13th and 14th centuries and was the largest contiguous land empire in. history
Quality: minimal. The Mongols are an ethnic group that originated in what is now Mongolia, Russia, and China. Mongols descended from the Huns, which was also the origin of the Turks. Mongolian originated ethnic groups are Hazaras in Afghanistan and minorities in Europe. However, Mongols are a different ethnic group from the Chinese. They lived on the continent of Asia but they didn’t live in one spot. They were nomadic people that traded with the Chinese and Persians. They would set up tents when they stopped in an area.
In the 12th century, various Turkic and Mongol-Tungusic tribes roamed the steppes of Mongolia. One of these tribes was the Mongols. Around the 1130, the Mongols emerged as a powerful tribe, defeating neighboring nomads and forcing the Jin Empire of Northern China to pay tribute. However, the glory was short lived. In 1160, the Mongol Kingdom was shattered, having been defeated by the neighboring Tartars tribe.
Mongols living outside Mongolia were absorbed by the conquered populations; Mongolia itself again became a land of incessantly warring nomadic tribes. True to the fourth pattern, a similar people, the Manchus, conquered China in the seventeenth century, and ultimately became sinicized. 
The area of what is now Mongolia has been ruled by various nomadic empires, including the Xiongnu state, the Xianbei state, the Rouran Khaganate, the Turkic Khaganate and others. The confederations of core Mongol tribes were transforming into a statehood in the early 12th century and came to be known as the Khamag Mongol confederacy. The people of Mongolia at this time were predominantly spirit worshipers, with shamans providing spiritual and religious guidance to the people and tribal leaders.
Archive. The Mongols. The ancient Mongols were a nomadic civilization, meaning they never really settled. This was somewhat of a disadvantage, for the enemy could easily take back an unoccupied city, or town. They lived in “gers”, or “yurts”. Gers and yurts are an Asian tent, made of felt and skins stretched over a pole frame. 
Around 500 BCE, a tribe of nomadic people called the Mongols lived in Asia. The Mongols were traders and herdsmen. They herded sheep and traded horses with the ancient Chinese and Persians. In the summer, they moved with their herds across the vast steppes of Asia, seeking fresh pasture land. They used dogs to help them herd the cattle