Catalytic Converter Recycling Values. From determining catalytic converter scrap prices to implementing a thorough refining process, Global Refining Group and our partners are a team of professionals with a goal to offer our clients the best value available.
Prompt payment from an industry leader. Another of our specialist services is recycling catalytic converters. EMR operate one of the largest and most professional catalytic converter buying networks in the industry. Our experts provide valuable experience which means we're able to offer the best price, with prompt payment and fast turnaround.
In order to get the best price for your catalytic converters, you can drop your cats off at Earthworks for our top grader to price, then pick up your payment a few days later. Otherwise, please call us at (509) 534-1638 to make sure a staff member is on hand that is qualified to grade catalytic converters. Drop your cat off while you run an errand. Be sure to review our information about the Non-ferrous Scrap Metal Recycling law ! Catalytic converters have been included in a new expansion to that law. We typically pay between $5 and $50 (or more!) for each catalytic converter you bring in to recycle. We do inspect each converter first to determine if it still has the internal components that give them recyclable value
Get Started. Welcome! SellYourCatsDirect.com is the industry’s most convenient way for you to turn your scrap catalytic converters and DPF Systems into cash. Whether you have 1 unit or 1000’s we are dedicated to making the recycling process convenient and profitable for you. 
Rockaway Recycling can help you classify the type of catalytic converter you have by using the pictures and descriptions we have posted on our website Catalytic Control. These prices are based on full catalytic converters. A Division of Rockaway Recycling. Rockaway Recycling has been a family run New Jersey Scrap Yard since 1977. We have been buying Catalytic Converters for scrap and paying cash for them on the spot.
Scrap Catalytic Converter Price List. NOTICE: Please Check your converters before shipping .. If they are empty .. They have no value. Contact us for the latest pricing. All prices subject to change with the market. 1  LG Foreign: Med Foreign: 2  Med Foreign: 3  Center O-2: 4  CENTER O-2 SLANT: 5  MIT HANGER: SM Foreign high grade: SM Foreign low grade: GM BREADLOAF:
Scrap Recycling. Offered by a number of our partners, scrap metal recycling and processing in the US and around the world is a large part of our business, in addition to catalytic converter recycling. We have several locations across North America as well as Canada, where we would be happy to recycle your scrap metal. From determining catalytic converter scrap prices to implementing a thorough refining process, Global Refining Group and our partners are a team of professionals with a goal to offer our clients the best value available.
Thanks for taking your time to visit converterguy.com. We are the #1 catalytic converter recycling company in the U.S. As with any mechanical device, catalytic converters will go bad. Because of the composition of catalytic converters, we recycle them for their precious metals content. Platinum, palladium and rhodium exist in trace amounts. Recycling catalytic converters is a intensive procedure, but definitely a boost to the environment. If your catalytic converter goes bad, you can earn a substantial amount of money by contacting us. We have many years of experience.