Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s. Musical Impressionism is the name given to a movement in European classical music that arose in the late 19th century and continued into the middle of the 20th century. Originating in France, musical Impressionism is characterized by suggestion and atmosphere, and eschews the emotional excesses of the Romantic era.
The principle Impressionist painters, a small group, were French. The movement faded and made a transition to Post-impressionism by 1886, but its influence on art was both major and lasting. Movements: Impressionism. Impressionism got its start in 1863 at le Salon des Refuses, refusés although the Term impressionism'wasn t coined until (1874 by a, critic ridiculing the). Movement the Principle impressionist, painters a small, group Were. french
Manet's paintings are considered among the first works of art in the modern era, due to his rough painting style and absence of idealism in his figures. Manet was a close friend of and major influence on younger artists who founded Impressionism such as Claude Monet, Edgar Degas and Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Impressionism can be considered the first distinctly modern movement in painting. Developing in Paris in the 1860s, its influence spread throughout Europe and eventually the United States.
1 The Post Impressionists were a few independent artists at the end of the 19th century who rebelled against the limitations of Impressionism to develop a range of personal styles that influenced the development of art in the 20th century. 2  The art of Paul Gauguin was a major influence in the development of Fauvism. 
Posted by Sandrine. Post-Impressionism is an art period that took place for the last two decades of the nineteenth century (more precisely from 1886 to 1914) during which many famous and iconic modern artworks were painted. The term “Post-Impressionism” was first used by artist and art critic Roger Fry in London, for a 1910 exhibition at the Grafton Gallery: “Monet and the Post-Impressionists.” At the time, he was looking for a term that would underline both a continuity with Impressionism and a departure from it.
The Neo-Impressionist movement was brief yet influential. The term Divisionism was also the name of an Italian version of Neo-Impressionism in the 1890s and early 1900s, and one can trace a line to Futurism which was founded in 1909. Some of the greatest impressionist artists were Edouard Manet, Camille Pissaro, Edgar Degas, Alfred Sisley, Claude Monet, Berthe Morisot and Pierre Auguste Renoir. Manet influenced the development of impressionism. He painted everyday objects.
'Waterlilies and Japanese Bridge', 1899 (oil on canvas). Impressionism was an art movement in France at the end of the 19th century. The Impressionists were a group of artists renowned for their innovative painting techniques and approach to using colour in art. 1 Impressionism was a style of painting that used a more scientific analysis of colour to capture the effects of light in nature. 2  The main artists associated with Impressionism were Claude Monet, Pierre Auguste Renoir, Camille Pissarro, Edgar Degas, Alfred Sisley and Henri Marie Raymond de Toulouse-Lautrec.
1 Impressionist compositions were strongly influenced by the development of photography and the discovery of Japanese woodcuts. 2  Impressionism is now seen as the first movement in modern art, and had a huge influence on the development of art in the 20th century. 1 Impressionism was a style of painting that used a more scientific analysis of colour to capture the effects of light in nature. 2  The main artists associated with Impressionism were Claude Monet, Pierre Auguste Renoir, Camille Pissarro, Edgar Degas, Alfred Sisley and Henri Marie Raymond de Toulouse-Lautrec.
Paul Gauguin was a French post impressionist artist who experimented with bold colors and found much inspiration in the South Seas. He was an important artist in the symbolist movement and his bold use of color led to the synthetist style of art. Paul Cezanne was a French post impressionist painter who led the way from 19th century art to 20th century art including the style of cubism. 