The Adventures of Superman was produced from 1951 to 1957, and was the first filmed adventure series with special effects ever attempted for TV. The two major forces behind the series were a pair of very remarkable, creative men -- producer Robert Maxwell, and actor George Reeves.
A much more lavish version of the popular Superman television series which had first aired forty years earlier, Lois & Clark focused more on the Man of Steel's early adult years in Metropolis.
Early sketch of Superman/Clark Kent. The revised Superman first appeared in Action Comics #1, June 1938. Siegel and Shuster sold the rights to the company for $130 and a contract to supply the publisher with material. The Saturday Evening Post reported in 1941 that the pair was being paid still a fraction of DC's Superman profits.
1 Mark L. Taylor did the voice of Jimmy Olsen in the 1988 animated adaptation of Superman. 2  On the television series Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman, Jimmy Olsen was portrayed by Michael Landes in the first season and Justin Whalin for the rest of the series' run.
The character was first introduced as Jimmy Olsen in the radio show The Adventures of Superman (on April 15, 1940). Jimmy's name was used in the comic for the first time in Superman v1 #13 (1941). Along with his appearances in current Superman titles (Superman and Action Comics), he was one of the main protagonists in DC Comics' weekly series Countdown.
Origins. The first Superman character created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster was not a hero, but a villain. Their short story The Reign of the Superman concerned a bald-headed villain bent on dominating the world. The story did not sell, forcing the two to reposition their character on the right side of the law.
Adventures of Superman was the first television series featuring the comic book superhero Superman. The series, which was syndicated rather than being tied to a network, began filming in 1951, and was first aired on September 19, 1952. The final first-run episode was broadcast on April 28, 1958.