Note: Be sure that all optimized images in the 4-Up window have the appropriate Quality setting applied. The JPEG compression process may cause sharp edges in an image to appear rough or jagged. You can apply the Smoothing command to blur the edges and create a more even transition between areas of high contrast. Smoothing removes a small amount of data from the image, and can reduce file size. 
Image editors are capable of altering an image to be rotated in any direction and to any degree. Mirror images can be created and images can be horizontally flipped or vertically flopped. A small rotation of several degrees is often enough to level the horizon, correct verticality (of a building, for example), or both. Controlling the print size and quality of digital images requires an understanding of the pixels-per-inch (ppi) variable that is stored in the image file and sometimes used to control the size of the printed image.
These pixels contain the image's color and brightness information. Image editors can change the pixels to enhance the image in many ways. The pixels can be changed as a group, or individually, by the sophisticated algorithms within the image editors. Controlling the print size and quality of digital images requires an understanding of the pixels-per-inch (ppi) variable that is stored in the image file and sometimes used to control the size of the printed image.
Image editing encompasses the processes of altering images, whether they are digital photographs, traditional photochemical photographs, or illustrations. Controlling the print size and quality of digital images requires an understanding of the pixels-per-inch (ppi) variable that is stored in the image file and sometimes used to control the size of the printed image.
A more recent tool in digital image editing software is the image slicer. Parts of images for graphical user interfaces or web pages are easily sliced, labeled and saved separately from whole images so the parts can be handled individually by the display medium. Controlling the print size and quality of digital images requires an understanding of the pixels-per-inch (ppi) variable that is stored in the image file and sometimes used to control the size of the printed image.
Step 4. Step 4: Remove unwanted elements using a soft brush. Still on the retouching layer, pick up a soft brush with a low opacity (20% is fine-you can change this on the top bar). Now gently paint on top of your image to remove elements that you don't like. Use Alt + Click to pick up a color and then paint over the layer. 
Softening images. Softening a photo creates a dreamy, glossy effect that mimics the effect produced by a high-quality soft-focus lens. This effect is often used for magazine covers and glamour photos. Crisp, sharp photos appear warmer when you add a soft focus. Amount — determines the strength of the halo effect. At lower values, the halo is added only to very bright areas in the photo. At higher values, a halo effect is created around all bright areas.
Idealized image of water softening process involving replacement of calcium ions in water with sodium ions donated by a cation-exchange resin. Water softening is the removal of calcium, magnesium, and certain other metal cations in hard water. The resulting soft water is more compatible with soap and extends the lifetime of plumbing. Water softening is usually achieved using lime softening or ion-exchange resins
This effect is very similar to the effect you might achieve when using a Softening Filter. Softening Effect-Rose. First of all choose a photograph with simplistic details, as a complicated image might not work well for the effect, and then, open your image in GIMP. 