In the meaning of colors, brown is the color of material security and the accumulation of material possessions. The color brown relates to quality in everything-a comfortable home, the best food and drink and loyal companionship. It is a color of physical comfort, simplicity and quality. From a negative perspective it can also give the impression of cheapness and stinginess in certain circumstances. The color brown is a serious, down-to-earth color signifying stability, structure and support. Relating to the protection and support of the family unit, with a keen sense of duty and responsibility, brown takes its obligations seriously.
Noun. 1. mahogany-wood of any of various mahogany trees; much used for cabinetwork and furniture. mahogany tree, mahogany-any of various tropical timber trees of the family Meliaceae especially the genus Swietinia valued for their hard yellowish-to reddish-brown wood that is readily worked and takes a high polish. ma•hog•a•ny. 1. any of several tropical American trees of the genus Swietenia, esp. S. mahagoni and S. macrophylla, yielding hard, reddish brown wood used for making furniture. 2. the wood itself. 3. any of various related or similar trees or their wood.
Mahogany. Mahogany is any of many different kinds of tropical hardwood, most of which are reddish-brown wood that is widely used in furniture-making, boat building, and other high specification uses. However, there are only three species of genuine mahogany, all indigenous to the Americas. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mahogany (Noun). Any of various tropical American evergreen trees, of the genus Swietenia, having a valuable hard red-brown wood. mahogany (Noun). The wood of these trees, mostly used to make furniture. mahogany (Adjective). Made of mahogany.
• SAPELE MAHOGANY (noun). The noun SAPELE MAHOGANY has 1 sense: 1. African tree having rather lightweight cedar-scented wood varying in color from pink to reddish brown. Familiarity information: SAPELE MAHOGANY used as a noun is very rare.
Mahogany (noun). a large tree of the genus Swietenia (S. Mahogoni), found in tropical America. Mahogany (noun). the wood of the Swietenia Mahogoni. It is of a reddish brown color, beautifully veined, very hard, and susceptible of a fine polish. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mahogany (Noun). Any of various tropical American evergreen trees, of the genus Swietenia, having a valuable hard red-brown wood. mahogany (Noun). The wood of these trees, mostly used to make furniture. mahogany (Adjective). Made of mahogany.
About. “That is Mahogany!” is a catchphrase that was originally quoted in the 2012 film adaptation of the young adult novel The Hunger Games by Suzanne Collins. Mahogany is a type of tropical hardwood with a reddish-brown color that is commonly used in furniture-making and boat building. The phrase was originally quoted in a scene from the science fiction film The Hunger Games released on March 23rd, 2012
2. Mahogany. Used in the term of a name, a female who is loud, most people see her having a attitude, diva, but she is mostly pretty, people rarely don't like her, she's outgoing and stubborn.If you don't like a Mahogany then its her attitude. They are great friends, but when you make them mad they make your life a living hell.
Mahogany is a kind of wood —the straight-grained, reddish-brown timber of three tropical hardwood species of the genus Swietenia, indigenous to the Americas, part of the pantropical chinaberry family, Meliaceae. The three species are: 
Mahogany is a reddish brown color. It is approximately the color of the wood, mahogany. However, the wood itself, like most woods, is not uniformly the same color. The first recorded use of mahogany as a color name in English was in 1737. Mahogany red is equivalent to the color called mahogany in Crayola crayons. Mahogany was made a Crayola color in 1949. The first recorded use of mahogany red as a color name in English was in 1843.