Just like your skin, your hair and nails are affected by the foods you choose to eat. And we're not talking about the sheen of those lustrous waves or a hangnail. Both hair and nails can become brittle and dry, and hair can thin or fall out without the right range of nutritious picks in your diet. Less research exists to document the impact of various foods on hair and nail health than to illustrate the role of diet in healthy skin. But there are still a few foods to consider avoiding if you're concerned about brittle nails or thinning hair.
Foods with Calcium or Protein. A lack of calcium can cause the nails to be brittle and dry. Calcium benefits the body most when it is absorbed along with vitamin D, so milk is a great source of calcium. Other calcium sources include yogurt, cheese and kale. Foods with B Vitamins. A lack of B vitamins, specifically biotin and vitamin B-12, can make your nails dry and brittle. Consume carrots, tomatoes, leafy green lettuce, liver, peanut butter, nuts, peas, oatmeal and beans as sources of biotin. Vitamin B12 can be found in meat, eggs and dairy products such as milk, yogurt and chees
Minerals and vitamins found in certain foods can improve the health and appearance of nails. Although eating certain foods will not provide a quick fix for nails, eating foods for healthy nails can help to contribute to nail health when combined with proper care and maintenance, such as cleaning and moisturizing. Foods with B Vitamins. A lack of B vitamins, specifically biotin and vitamin B-12, can make your nails dry and brittle. Consume carrots, tomatoes, leafy green lettuce, liver, peanut butter, nuts, peas, oatmeal and beans as sources of biotin. Vitamin B12 can be found in meat, eggs and dairy products such as milk, yogurt and cheese
And we're not just talking about your skin: A nutritious diet promotes healthy nails and hair, too, says Joshua Zeichner, MD, director of cosmetic and clinical research in the department of dermatology at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. Give your hair and nails a boost. by Kiera Aaron. Looking good is just as much about taking care of your body on the inside as it is about using products on the outside.
Pumpkin seeds, beef, pork, lamb, dairy products and hard-boiled eggs are good sources of zinc. A lack of iron in foods can cause nails to grow with ridges rather than with a smooth surface. Eat leafy greens, prunes, grains, seeds, red meat, broccoli and tofu as sources of iron. Foods with B Vitamins. A lack of B vitamins, specifically biotin and vitamin B-12, can make your nails dry and brittle. Consume carrots, tomatoes, leafy green lettuce, liver, peanut butter, nuts, peas, oatmeal and beans as sources of biotin. Vitamin B12 can be found in meat, eggs and dairy products such as milk, yogurt and cheese
Toxic overload, stress, and poor diet all contribute to lackluster skin, dry and brittle hair, and brittle nails that never seem to grow. One of the neatest things about eating a healthy diet is your nails, hair and skin are often the first things to change for the better when your diet improves. A plant-based diet provides all the nutrients your nails, hair and skin need to look their best. Eat more of these in your whole foods plant-based diet and your skin will thank you in folds! Your nails, hair and skin need certain nutrients to thrive. Here are five of the best ones your hair loves that will give you strong nails and hair, along with beautiful skin.
iStockphoto/Thinkstock. Iron deficiency can lead to dull, brittle nails. To keep your fingers fit, up your intake of iron-rich foods (fortified cereals, eggs, spinach) and pair them with vitamin Cacâ rich (foods citrus, fruits, tomatoes bell) peppers to help the body absorb. iron 
Vegetables are rich in minerals and vitamins for a healthy body and strong, healthy nails. Sweet potatoes, carrots and dark green vegetables--like broccoli and asparagus--are high in vitamin A. Carrots also contain vitamin B6, while spinach and other leafy green vegetables have calcium, iron and antioxidants. Lean meat products are good for a healthy body. Calves liver and kidney contain iron, protein and biotin, all of which contribute to making your nails stronger. You can also find high levels of protein and iron in red meats, like steak and ground beef.
Food to Make Finger Nails Stronger. A healthy diet can make your fingernails stronger. Photo Credit hand image by Earl Robbins from Fotolia.com. Strong nails look good and caring for them is easy. Brittle, cracked or discolored nails can be an indication of a lack of nutrients or even health problems, like hypothyroidism. Lean meat products are good for a healthy body. Calves liver and kidney contain iron, protein and biotin, all of which contribute to making your nails stronger. You can also find high levels of protein and iron in red meats, like steak and ground beef.