The stretch reflex (myotatic reflex) is a muscle contraction in response to stretching within the muscle. It is a monosynaptic reflex which provides automatic regulation of skeletal muscle length. When a muscle lengthens, the muscle spindle is stretched and its nerve activity increases. There are several theories as to what may trigger gamma motoneurons to increase the reflex's sensitivity. For example, alpha-gamma co-activation might keep the spindles taut when a muscle is contracted, preserving stretch reflex sensitivity even as the muscle fibers become shorter.
As you stretch the muscle, a message gets sent to your central nervous system (not necessarily your brain) that can cause a reflex contraction of the exact muscle that you are trying to stretch! The most common example of the stretch reflex is a test for the stretch reflex in your quadriceps (thigh muscles). In this test, the tendon below the knee (Patella tendon is hit with a small reflex hammer. The stretch reflex is something that is designed to protect us, but can get a little annoying when you are trying to get more flexible! Inside the millions of tiny fibers that make up each of your muscles are little cells called Muscle Spindles that measure how much stretch there is in your muscles.
The stretch reflex is very important in posture. It helps maintain proper posturing because a slight lean to either side causes a stretch in the spinal, hip and leg muscles to the other side, which is quickly countered by the stretch reflex. This is a constant process of adjusting and maintaining. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A stretch reflex, also referred to as a deep tendon reflex or myotatic stretch reflex, is a physical response to the extension of a muscle. In essence, it is a process that causes a contraction, thereby stopping a stretch. Before a workout, take time to gently and slowly stretch the muscles in order to help prevent any muscle damage. Runners who don't stretch adequately before a workout run the risk of muscle tears or other damage. Tapping the petellar tendon with a reflex hammer will trigger the knee jerk reflex.
The Stretch Reflex : (See Figure 13.15). The stretch reflex in its simplest form involves only 2 neurons, and is therefore sometimes called a 2-neuron reflex. The two neurons are a sensory and a motor neuron. The sensory neuron is stimulated by stretch (extension) of a muscle. Stretch of a muscle normally happens when its antagonist contracts, or artificially when its tendon is stretched, as in the knee jerk reflex
From a clinical perspective, reflexes are extremely important. The stretch reflex is most important and is tested routinely. The flexion reflex is seldom tested, except in unconscious patients. Pain pathways usually are checked by testing for conscious sensibility to pin prick (see Chapter 5). 1 Passive limb movement causes a stretch reflex in the muscles being stretched and their reflex contraction resists further movement of the limb. 2  The resistance is velocity sensitive, being greater the faster the limb is moved. 3  Clasp knife reflex.
Another example of the stretch reflex is the knee-jerk test performed by physicians. When the patellar tendon is tapped with a small hammer, or other device, it causes a slight stretch in the tendon, and consequently the quadriceps muscles. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.
The stretch reflex is caused by a stretch in the muscle spindle. When the stretch impulse is received a rapid sequence of events follows. The motor neuron is activated and the stretched muscles, and its supporting muscles, are contracted while its antagonist muscles are inhibited. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.
The stretch reflex; which is also often called the myotatic reflex, knee-jerk reflex, or deep tendon reflex, is a pre-programmed response by the body to a stretch stimulus in the muscle. The stretch reflex can be activated by external forces (such as a load placed on the muscle) or internal forces (the motor neurons being stimulated from within.) An example of the former is a person holding an empty tray in their outstretched arm and then having a plate of food set on it.