The kidneys help regulate pH of the body fluids. The kidneys regulate the concentration of erythrocytes in the blood. The kidneys participate, with the skin and liver, in vitamin D synthesis. Urinary System Kidneys Each kidney is behind the peritoneum and surrounded by a renal capsule and a renal fat pad. Chapter 18: The Urinary System and Fluid Balance. The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra. The urinary system eliminates wastes, controls blood volume, regulates blood ion concentration and pH, and regulates red blood cell production. Functions of the Urinary System The kidneys excrete waste products. The kidneys control blood volume by regulating the volume of urine produce
Insulin and glucagon are hormones secreted by islet cells within the pancreas. They are both secreted in response to blood sugar levels, but in opposite fashion! Insulin is normally secreted by the beta cells (a type of islet cell) of the pancreas. 
The hormones that affect the urinary system help it regulate the amount of water and mineral ions in urine. By extension, this action also regulates the pressure in the bloodstream and the concentration of mineral ions in the blood. In addition, it regulates the concentrations of sodium, potassium, calcium, chloride, and other mineral ions (an ion is an atom or group of atoms that has an electrical charge) in the blood. These combined actions by the urinary system help the body maintain homeostasis or the balanced state of its internal functions.
Regulates Blood Volume The urinary system regulates blood volume by: 1) releasing renin, a hormone that after a series of reactions eventually restricts salt and water loss at the kidneys. 2) adjusting the volume of water lost in the urine. 1  Regulates RBC Production. 1 The urinary system ensures glucose, amino acids and other valuable nutrients are not lost from the urine. 2  Regulates Ion Levels in the Plasma. 3  The urinary system regulates ion (electrolyte) levels in the plasma by regulating the amount of sodium, potassium, chloride and other ions
The urinary system can also help the body to remove excess glucose from the blood. As a result, though, high blood sugar levels can present problems for the urinary system in the short term as well as in the longer term. Diabetes can have short term and long term effects on the urinary system. In the short term, high blood glucose levels can promote bacterial growth which can raise the risk of urinary tract infections or thrush developing.
The role of the excretory system is to remove waste products such as urea, uric acid, and creatinine from the blood to be passed out of the body as urine. The urinary system also helps us to regulate the amount of glucose, salts and water in the blood. Diabetes can have short term and long term effects on the urinary system. In the short term, high blood glucose levels can promote bacterial growth which can raise the risk of urinary tract infections or thrush developing.
Hyperglycemia may be described as an excess of sugar (glucose) in the blood. Your endocrine system regulates the amount of sugar that is stored and used for energy. It is important in brain cell function, and energy levels. Insulin is a hormone that is made in the pancreas that is responsible for maintaining normal blood sugar levels. If you have a problem with your pancreas, then you may have increased blood sugar levels. Normal blood Glucose (sugar) levels are 60-110 mg/dL. Normal values may vary from laboratory to laboratory.
The urinary system generally maintains homeostasis: regulating blood volume, solute concentration and glucose balance through mechanisms that absorption, filtration and secretion. The organs that carryout these functions are the kidneys, urinary bladder and the urethra. 
Homeostasis The urinary system maintains homeostasis in several ways: Removal of urea (nitrogenous waste) from the bloodstream. Control of water and salt balance in the bloodstream. Involved in blood pressure regulation. Water control and nitrogen disposal. Homeostasis The urinary system maintains homeostasis in several ways: Removal of urea (nitrogenous waste) from the bloodstream. Control of water and salt balance in the bloodstream. Involved in blood pressure regulation. The kidneys produce two important hormones.