Muscle relaxants are sometimes used to treat other conditions-for example, diazepam is sometimes used to treat difficulty with sleeping (insomnia). The rest of this leaflet only discusses the use of baclofen, dantrolene, diazepam, tizanidine, and cannabis extract when they are used as muscle relaxants.
Tizanidine is a short-acting muscle relaxer that's marketed under the brand name Zanaflex. It is used to treat muscle spasms caused by certain conditions such as multiple sclerosis, ALS, or spinal cord injury. It is also prescribed off-label for certain headache disorders, symptoms of fibromyalgia, and as a sleep aid.
Cyclobenzaprine uses. In addition to use as a muscle relaxant, cyclobenzaprine has an off-label use as a sleep aid for people with fibromyalgia, a condition that can mimic some symptoms of PTSD, such as anxiety, depression and insomnia.
Muscle relaxants are medicines that are used to prevent and reduce muscle spasms and spasticity. Muscle spasms occur when there is an uncontrolled (involuntary) contraction of a group of muscles. The muscles usually shorten (contract) suddenly; this is often painful.
Muscle relaxants are medications that are used to help relax the muscles and can be used to help reduce pain that comes from strains, sprains, cramp and muscular injuries. They can also help to combat general stress and can be used to aid sleep (and even to prevent sleepwalking).
Typically, muscle relaxants are prescribed early in a course of back pain, on a short-term basis, to relieve low back pain associated with muscle spasms. There are several types of muscle relaxant medications that are commonly used to treat low back pain. 1  See: Pulled Back Muscle and Lower Back Strain.
Medications for Back Pain Video. Muscle relaxants are not really a class of drugs, but rather a group of different drugs that each has an overall sedative effect on the body. These drugs do not act directly on the muscles; rather they act centrally (in the brain) and are more of a total body relaxant.
do not, i repeat do not take muscle relaxers as a sleep aid! muscle relaxers should only be taken as prescribed by your doctor, if they aren't prescribed to you then you should not take them. i'm a certified pharmacy technician and the pharmacist i work for recommends valerian root over melatonin for sleep.