Obituary. Pollock John Scott Pollock, known by many as Jack, age 64, passed away Saturday, February 2, 2013, at his home in Dublin OH. Born May 15, 1948, the son of the late John C. and Rose (Pempek) Pollock. 
Jack Scott, Canadian Born Italian Hillbilly. Jack Scott was born Giovanni Scafone Jr., on January 24, 1936 in Windsor Ontario, Canada. His father, an accomplished guitarist, gave Jack a guitar around the age of eight. At the age of ten, the family moved to Hazel Park, MI. At that time Jack already began signing and performing on a local radio station. Thus developed the melting-pot miracle: A Canadian born, Italian hillbilly who worshipped Hank Williams and who soon sparked his own teen age band, Scott played the guitar lead and vocals. His first album was entitled simply Jack Scott. This album contained 10 of Scott's own compositions.
Scott spent his early childhood in Windsor, Ontario (Canada), across the river from Detroit, Michigan (United States). When he was 10, Scott's family moved to Hazel Park, a Detroit suburb. He grew up listening to hillbilly music and was taught to play the guitar by his Mother Laura. As a teenager, he pursued a singing career and recorded as 'Jack Scott.' At the age of 18, he formed the Southern Drifters. After leading the band for three years, he signed to ABC-Paramount Records as a solo artist in 1957.
And then there is Jack Scott. A Canadian-Italian born Giovanni Dominco Scafone Jr. in Windsor, Ontario, he changed his name to Jack Scott by the age of 18, when he decided to pursue music as more than hobby. He formed a band called the Southern Drifters around 1954 and played with them around the area until signing with ABC Records in 1957.
Jack Scott is an Canadian/American singer and songwriter. He was the first white rock and roll star to come out of Detroit, Michigan. He was inducted into Canadian Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2011 & has been called undeniably the greatest Canadian rock and roll singer of all time.. … Read More. 
Rock. Jack Scott sounded tough, like someone you wouldn't want to meet in a dark alley unless he had a guitar in his hands. When he growled The Way I Walk, wise men (and women) stepped aside. But his principal pop success came with tears-in-your-beer country-based ballads -- What in the World's Come Over You and Burning Bridges were massive smashes on Top Rank in 1960, and he recorded an entire album's worth of Hank Williams covers for the firm the same year.
read more. Jack Scott (Giovanni Sacfone Jr) was born January 24, 1936 in Windsor Ontario, Canada, and raised in Detroit, an Italian hillbilly who worshipped Hank Williams, and became a rock and roll star. His first album, entitled Jack Scott. 
Please try again later. Jack Scott (born Giovanni Dominico Scafone Jr., January 24, 1936, Windsor, Ontario, Canada) is an Canadian/American singer and songwriter. He was the first white rock and roll star to come out of Detroit, Michigan. In 2007, Jack Scott was inducted into the Michigan Rock and Roll Legends Hall of Fame. More recently Scott was nominated for the Hit Parade Hall of Fame. He is still actively singing and touring today and resides in a suburb of Detroit.
Gordon Ramsay was born on November 8, 1966 in Glasgow, Scotland as Gordon James Ramsay. He is known for his work on Hell's Kitchen (2005), Kitchen Nightmares (2007) and The F Word (2005). He has been married to Tana Ramsay since December 21, 1996. They have four children. During this time, he played a couple of non-league matches as a trialist. Has 4 children: Megan Ramsay (Megan Jane Ramsay) (born 1998), twins Holly Ramsay (Holly Anna Ramsay) and Jack Ramsay (Jack Scott Ramsay) (born 2000) and Mathilda Ramsay (Matilda Elizabeth Ramsay) (born 2002).
In 1992 Scott re-recorded Burning Bridges; as a duet with Carroll Baker. In 2007, Jack Scott was inducted into the Michigan Rock and Roll Legends Hall of Fame. More recently Scott was nominated for the Hit Parade Hall of Fame. He is still actively singing and touring today and resides in a suburb of Detroit.