Growing rice from seed isn't as hard as you may think: 1  Soak the seeds in water for about 36 hours and allow to dry for another 24 hours. 2  Fill a bucket with 6 inches of a mixture of soil and compost. 3  Add about 5 inches of water to cover the soil. 4  Evenly spread the seeds in the bucket and place in a warm, sunny area. 
Rice comes in long-grain, medium-and short-grain textures. It grows easily in your backyard, in a garden bed or in buckets, given the right amount of soil, water, and other nutrients. Short-grain, medium-grain and long-grain rice thrive in wet conditions, specifically standing puddles of water or swamp-like conditions. Plant the rice seeds throughout the soil, during the fall or spring season. Get rid of the weeds, till the beds, and level the soil. If you are using buckets, fill them with at least 6 inches (15 cm) of moist soil. Then add the rice seeds. 1  Keep in mind that the area needs to be flooded with water.
Directions. 1  Rinse brown rice in a sieve and place in a glass jar or bowl. 2  Add double the volume of warm water, cover loosely with a towel to keep bugs out, and set aside in a warm area of the kitchen for about 12 hours. 3  Pour the rice back into the sieve and drain the soaking liquid. 1 Rinse brown rice in a sieve and place in a glass jar or bowl. 2  Add double the volume of warm water, cover loosely with a towel to keep bugs out, and set aside in a warm area of the kitchen for about 12 hours.
Instructions. Place the rice in a fine mesh colander and rinse under running water. Place the rice in a wide-mouthed glass jar and cover with water. Soak the rice for 14 to 18 hours. Pour the rice into your colander and rinse. Drain the rice and place it back in the jar. Cover the mouth of the jar with a light, breathable cloth and place the jar in a cool, semi-lit place. Rinse and drain the sprouts every 8 to 12 hours. Each time you rinse, sample a few sprouts for texture and flavo
1 Drain the rice in a fine colander/sieve. 2  Rinse rice well with clean water, shake off excess and place colander over bowl — this allows any water to drip off. 3  Repeat this step 2 or 3 times a day, about every 8 hours or so. 1 Set aide in a warm area and allow to “soak” for at least 12 hours or up to 20 hours. 2  Drain the rice in a fine colander/sieve. 3
Follow these simple instructions for an easy, delicious way to get the most nutrition out of your rice. 1  Rinse brown rice and place in bowl. 2  Drain the rice in a fine colander/sieve. 3  Rinse and drain rice in this manner for 1 to 2 days, or until a very tiny sprout emerges from the rice grain. 1 Set aide in a warm area and allow to “soak” for at least 12 hours or up to 20 hours. 2  Drain the rice in a fine colander/sieve. 3  Rinse rice well with clean water, shake off excess and place colander over bowl — this allows any water to drip off.
2. You can also sprout rice as you would alfalfa sprouts--soak, and then rinse and turn the jar upside down over a strainer. Personally, I find it easier to sprout when the rice is in water. 3. Green tea works to reduce the presence of bad bacteria that cause spoiling. Sprouted brown rice can also be called sprouted brown rice, GABA brown rice (for the amino acid GABA that is created during the sprouting), or hatsuga genmai in Japanese. On page one is a short history and some health benefits. Skip to page two to get straight to the how-to
http://thecoconutmama.com/2010/10/how... Sprouting Brown Rice -. Soak rice for 9 hours. Drain. Rinse rice every 6-8 hours for 2-3 days. Why I sprout -. http://www.westonaprice.org/food-feat...