The International Standard Recording Code (ISRC) is the international identification system for sound recordings and music video recordings. Each ISRC is a unique and permanent identifier for a specific recording which can be permanently encoded into a product as its digital fingerprint. The ISRC provides the means to automatically identify recordings for royalty payments and, in many territories, is increasingly becoming a tool in the fight against piracy.
The ISRC (International Standard Recording Code) is a global identification system that tracks individual sound recordings. Each ISRC code represents a unique master sound recording and can be embedded into the “digital fingerprint” of the song during the mastering stage. ISRC codes are what rights and royalty organizations (such as SOCAN) use to track royalty payments, and are often required by digital music services such as iTunes or CD Baby. The ISRC code is a 12-digit number comprised of the country, registrant, year of reference, and the unique song designation.
The ISRC (International Standard Recording Code) is the international identification system for sound recordings and music video recordings. Each ISRC is a unique and permanent identifier for a specific recording, independent of the format on which it appears (CD, audio file, etc) or the rights holders involved. Only one ISRC should be issued to a track, and an ISRC can never represent more than one unique recording.
ISRCs are widely used in digital commerce by download sites and collecting societies. An ISRC can also be permanently encoded into a product as its digital fingerprint. Encoded ISRC provide the means to automatically identify recordings for royalty payments. Each ISRC is a unique and permanent identifier for a specific recording, independent of the format on which it appears (CD, audio file, etc) or the rights holders involved. Only one ISRC should be issued to a track, and an ISRC can never represent more than one unique recording.
1 Codes can be obtained from 3 basic sources, directly from the RIAA, from an ISRC Manager or from a music service provider. 2  The code must be burned into the recording. 3  It is your responsibility to provide the code information when distributing your recordings. The number of recordings you need codes for and the amount of responsibility you are willing to take on for their management will determine what is the best method for you. As stated earlier, codes can be obtained from 3 basic sources:
The International Standard Recording Code (ISRC) is an international standard code for uniquely identifying sound recordings and music video recordings. The code was developed by the recording industry in conjunction with the ISO technical committee 46, subcommittee 9 (TC 46/SC 9) , which codified the standard as ISO 3901 in 1986, and updated it in 2001.
When I first heard about ISRC codes and the importance of its implementation for the owners of recordings, I was excited to know that a system was in place to allow artists to track sales and radio playback. The number of recordings you need codes for and the amount of responsibility you are willing to take on for their management will determine what is the best method for you. As stated earlier, codes can be obtained from 3 basic sources: directly from the RIAA, from an ISRC Manager or from a music service provider.
An ISRC identifies a particular recording, not the work (composition and lyrical content) itself. Therefore, different recordings, edits, and remixes of the same work should each have their own ISRC. Works are identified by ISWC. The code was developed by the recording industry in conjunction with the ISO technical committee 46, subcommittee 9 (TC 46/SC 9) , which codified the standard as ISO 3901 in 1986, and updated it in 2001.
1 XXX is a three character alphanumeric registrant code of the ISRC issuer. ( 2 This number by itself does NOT uniquely identify the ISRC issuer as the same 3-digit number may be used in various countries for different issuers. The code was developed by the recording industry in conjunction with the ISO technical committee 46, subcommittee 9 (TC 46/SC 9) , which codified the standard as ISO 3901 in 1986, and updated it in 2001.