There are probably only a handful of king cheetahs in the wild, but it has been bred in captivity. As with the selective breeding of white tigers and white lions, there is a danger of inbreeding-since cheetahs are already so inbred (causing infertility problems), this could be disastrous.
The cheetah used to roam throughout Africa and Asia. Today, the cat can only be found in certain regions of Africa, and a small area in Iran. They have lost 75% of their original habitat. Most prefer to live in open areas where there is an abundance of prey.
Cheetahs are mostly found in sub-Saharan Africa and in eastern and southern African parks. Some of the animals can still be found in southern Algeria, northern Niger and Iran. They like dry, open grasslands where they can pick up speed to kill prey. During daybreak and dusk, cheetahs spend their time stalking and catching prey.
King cheetahs are not limited to a small area. They are actually found everywhere that cheetahs are found. This is because king cheetahs are genetic mutants, like color phases, not a separate species or subspecies. Some other varieties of cheetah remain in the realm of cryptozoology, still unconfirmed by science.
Its coat is yellowish-brown with dark brown spots and a long white-tipped tail.The cheetah may be found in open grassland and nearby forests in all parts of Africa, the Middle East, and south-central Asia, where it hunts by day, from the ground, and seeks antelope and other grazing animals.
The Cheetah is the fastest land animal reaching speeds of 45 – 70 mph. Cheetahs have also been known to swim, although they do not like to. The Cheetah is not one of the Great Cats, because it does not have a floating Hyoid bone in its neck it can not roar, therefore it is a Lesser Cat.
The King Cheetah. This unusual looking cheetah, also known as Cooper's Cheetah, was once thought to be a separate sub-species. But it is actually an African Cheetah exhibiting a rare fur pattern mutation.
King Cheetah originated from Central Africa, where they were used for hunting. These Cheetah were part of a breeding program to acquire genetic mutations, such as fur patterns, size, and rare and unusual color forms, with no regard to the genetic integrity of the species.
Once the cheetahs range ran from India, through the Middle East and extended to the very south of the African continent. Today, to the north, the Asian cheetah is almost extinct and can only be found in a few remote areas of Iran and Afghanistan.