Hives on dark skin. Hives are a skin reaction that causes red or white itchy welts. The welts vary in size and appear and fade repeatedly as the reaction runs its course. Chronic hives are a condition in which the welts last more than six weeks or recur over months or years. But the condition can be very uncomfortable and interfere with sleep and daily activities. Often, the cause of chronic hives is not clear. In some cases, chronic hives are a sign of an underlying health problem, such as thyroid disease or lupus. You can try various treatments to relieve your symptoms. For many people, antihistamine and anti-itch medications provide relief from chronic hive
Urticaria is not just an allergic disease. It can be caused by metabolic diseases, medications, infectious diseases, autoimmune disease, or physical sensitivity, said co-editor Dr. Alan A. Wanderer, also of Allergy and Asthma Consultants. Urticaria, commonly known as hives, is one of the most common dermatological conditions seen by allergists, said co-editor Dr. David L. Goodman, of Allergy and Asthma Consultants in Englewood, Colorado. Traditional allergies to foods or medications and viral illness are frequent causes of acute urticaria..
Acute urticaria: Hives lasting less than six weeks. The most common causes are certain foods, medications, or infections. Insect bites and internal disease may also be responsible. The most common foods that cause hives are nuts, chocolate, fish, tomatoes, eggs, fresh berries, and milk. Fresh foods cause hives more often than cooked foods. Certain food additives and preservatives may also be to blame. Drugs that can cause hives and angioedema include aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications such as ibuprofen, high blood pressure drugs (ACE inhibitors), or painkillers such as codeine. Chronic urticaria and angioedema: Hives lasting more
Causes. The welts that come with hives arise when certain cells release histamine and other chemicals into your bloodstream. Doctors often can't identify the reason for this skin reaction, or why it sometimes turns into a long-term problem (chronic hives). But the skin reaction may be triggered by: 1  Pain medications.
With this type of hives, the cause can often be found. Certain foods, medications, viruses and other illness, and even things in your home (cats, dogs, dust) can cause hives. Insect bites and internal diseases may also be responsible. Sometimes hives will occur in individuals repeatedly without an obvious cause. 
Hives, also known as urticaria, are red welts that appear on the skin and are typically caused by an allergic reaction to foods or medication. They may appear like a normal skin rash that is slightly raised, forming in large patches. 
Autoimmune Urticaria: Introduction. Skin swelling, redness and itching caused by autoimmune disorders. An autoimmune disorder is a malfunction of the immune system which causes it to attack itself. In the cause of autoimmune urticaria, the body's own immune system attacks the skin. ... Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Autoimmune Urticaria: 1  Idiopathic urticaria without angioedema. 2  Chronic urticaria. 3  Occult infection (e.g., sinusitis, oral infection, cholecystitis, vaginitis, prostatitis, hepatitis, HIV, tinea manus or pedis). 4  Malignancy. 5  Thyroid disease.
Hives Related Diseases & Conditions. Medical conditions are often related to other diseases and conditions. Our doctors have compiled a list of ailments related to the topic of Hives. These conditions may be a cause or symptom of Hives or be a condition for which you may be at increased risk. Rash The word rash means an outbreak of red bumps on the body.