Medical Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places—see rough endoplasmic reticulum. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places — see cell illustration. See endoplasmic reticulum defined for kids.
Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM for Kids. : a system of cavities and tiny connecting canals that occupy much of the cytoplasm of the cell and functions especially in the movement of materials within the cell. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places — see cell illustration. See endoplasmic reticulum defined for kids.
endoplasmic reticulum. a system of folded membranes, channels, and flattened sacs in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells, involved in the synthesis, storage, and transport of various substances necessary to cell function: as the point of attachment for ribosomes, it is especially associated with protein synthesis. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The endoplasmic reticulum is defined as a series of folded membranes in the cells which are associated with protein synthesis, storage and the movement of cellular materials. An example of the endoplasmic reticulum is the place that steroids are stored in the cells for later use
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is especially prominent in cells such as hepatocytes.
Definition of ENDOPLASMIC RETICULUM. : a system of interconnected vesicular and lamellar cytoplasmic membranes that functions especially in the transport of materials within the cell and that is studded with ribosomes in some places — see cell illustration. See endoplasmic reticulum defined for kids.
en·do·plas·mic reticulum. A network of membranes within the cytoplasm of many cells that is important in protein synthesis and involved in the transport of cellular materials. All organisms except bacteria have at least one endoplasmic reticulum in their cells. See more at cell. endoplas′mic retic′ulum. a network of tubular membranes within the cytoplasm of the cell, occurring either with a smooth surface (smooth endoplasmic reticulum) or studded with ribosomes (rough endoplasmic reticulum), involved in the transport of materials.. [1945–50].
An organelle consisting of a network of membranes within the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells that is important in protein synthesis and folding and is involved in the transport of cellular materials. The endoplasmic reticulum can be continuous in places with the membrane of the cell nucleus. endoplasmic reticulum-noun Cell Biology. a network of tubular membranes within the cytoplasm of the cell, occurring either with a smooth surface (smooth endoplasmic reticulum) or studded with ribosomes (rough endoplasmic reticulum), involved in the transport of
Another organelle in the cell is the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). While the function of the nucleus is to act as the cell brain, the ER functions as a manufacturing and packaging system. It works closely with the Golgi apparatus, ribososmes, mRNA, and tRNA. Structurally, the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes found throughout the cell and connected to the nucleus. The membranes are slightly different from cell to cell and a cell’s function determines the size and structure of the ER.