Second, Ditra is a decoupler, meaning (in this case) there's no chemical bond between the tile and the subfloor. With cementboard, the tile is mortared to the cementboard and the cementboard is mortared to the substrate, so there's a chemical bond. A proprietary product created by Schluter Systems, Ditra is a polyethylene decoupling membrane designed to manage movement in wood and many other types of floor systems to prevent cracking and other problems with tile installations.
You must use a premium unmodified mortar between tile and Ditra (no polymer!! it's not supposed to stick to the Ditra!). Mastic is not recommended. All premixes contain polymer. 11/64 trowel is not required, Schluter themselves even say so. I used a 1/4 x 3/16 v-notch trowel that they say is ok to use. Rated 5.0 out of 5.0 by VDET Ditra or Hardibacker I did two DIY floors in my 100 year old house, one with ditra and one with hardibacker. Both worked. The main difference is Ditra provides more strength against breaking tiles, while hardibacker provides for a flat floor.
How to install Schluter Ditra on plywood sub floor. It is important to use a very good quality polymer modified thinset to install the ditra on the sub floor. 
If you use ditra, and if you have an approved substrate, and if you have the correct thinset mortar, and if you fill the waffles correctly, and if you use the proper trowel and get proper coverage it will not fail. Yes, that’s a lot of ifs – when you read it. In practice it really is not that many things to get right. Most any plywood (even osb) is an approved substrate for ditra. And if you use a thinset approved for that substrate, there are no problems at all. Photos 3 and 4 had an unapproved substrate and, apparently, incorrect thinset (and a shitty tile job, but that’s a whole other post).
I've never understood the reason to use ditra or the newer, larger ditra. For most things, there's a trade-off and of course, other options. As contractors, we should know the whys of the things we do....and other options, be they better/worse/same. The ditra tearouts I've done have been for repairs and changes. The best one was when the designers (the money people) came in and saw how dark it was and we had to demo the whole unit. Turned out the designers were telling the architect what to do. Or mebbe..... Depends upon what it is...and if there's a need to.
(Click on the pretty little links) If you happen to have Schluter Ditra as your substrate, this post will tell you why either one of the above may be happening. While Ditra is my preferred membrane for floor tile installation (as well as countertops and tub decks) it absolutely needs to be installed correctly. Most any plywood (even osb) is an approved substrate for ditra. And if you use a thinset approved for that substrate, there are no problems at all. Photos 3 and 4 had an unapproved substrate and, apparently, incorrect thinset (and a shitty tile job, but that’s a whole other post).
Schluter DITRA underlayment is an uncoupling membrane that allows the tile floor to move (in-plane) relative to the substrate, eliminating the major causes for cracked and delaminated tile. DITRA is a versatile product and can do more than just provide an uncoupling membrane. DITRA can be used as a waterproofing membrane for vapor and moisture management, and to support / distribute heavy loads. Check out the installation handbook for even more information and certifications
When I use Ditra, I'll usually use an unmodified thinset, and then for bonding it to the plywood, I'll mix it with a liquid latex additive, and then for setting the tile, I'll mix it with water. 2) Ditra is probably better all the way around. Cement board, like Ditra, provides no structural support. But in the case of cement board, all it DOES provide is a more stable bonding surface. With Ditra, not only do you have a good bonding surface, but you also have what's called an uncoupling memrbane. Short explanation is it does as good a job as any membrane can, to protect your floor from movement. 3) Sounds good. 4) depends on who you ask. From my point of view, I like thinset better.
1 A polyethylene membrane: Polyethylene is the most common plastic available. 2  The Schluter-DITRA matting is a flexible, waterproof form of it. 3  With a grid structure of square cavities: These cavities are filled with thin-set mortar that produces a mechanical bond between the mortar and the tile. 