Directions. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. In a large mixing bowl, combine the pork, lamb, ground round, spinach, cheese, egg, basil, parsley, garlic powder, salt, red pepper flakes, and 1/4 cup of the bread crumbs. Using your hands, mix all ingredients until well incorporated. Use immediately or place in refrigerator for up to 24 hours.
7. Bake the meatballs. Put the baking sheet with the meatballs in the oven for 20- 30 minutes. Cook them until the meatballs are brown and lightly crisped all over. Tips. 1  You can cook meatballs in a skillet if you don't want to wait for the oven to heat up. 2  Add some ingredients-try red peppers or chopped jalapenos. 3  This recipe can also be made with ground turkey instead of ground beef. 4  Use a melon baller or small ice cream scoop for uniformly sized
Confidence votes 156. Bake at 350 degrees until cooked through, between 15 and 35 minutes, depending on the size of the meatball and your particular oven. The surest method is to use a meat thermometer, with the internal temperature being at least 165 degrees Fahrenheit. Basically it's a pound of ground meat (any kind, even ground turkey), an egg, a teaspoon of Italian seasoning, and 1/2 … cup of bread crumbs. You can fry them, bake them, or simmer them. When you mix the ground meat, seasonings, egg, and bread crumbs, form your meatballs. Brown them in a skillet turning on all sides until the are browned on all sides and break one open to make sure they are cooked through. If you bake them, put them on a cooking sheet and bake at 350 for about 20 minutes
Bake at 350 degrees until cooked through, between 15 and 35 minutes, depending on the size of the meatball and your particular oven. The surest method is to use a meat thermom … eter, with the internal temperature being at least 165 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Ready In. 1  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  In a medium bowl, mix together the ground turkey, egg, and bread crumbs using your hands. 3  Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven, then turn them over, and continue baking for about 5 more minutes, or until somewhat crispy on the outside. 1 In a medium bowl, mix together the ground turkey, egg, and bread crumbs using your hands. 2  Using an ice cream scoop if possible, form the meat into golf ball sized meatballs. 3  Place about 1 inch apart in the hot baking dish.
1 Place about 1 inch apart in the hot baking dish. 2  Press down to flatten the bottom just slightly. 3  Bake for 15 minutes in the preheated oven, then turn them over, and continue baking for about 5 more minutes, or until somewhat crispy on the outside. 4  Serve with pasta and sauce or however you'd like. 1 In a medium bowl, mix together the ground turkey, egg, and bread crumbs using your hands. 2  Using an ice cream scoop if possible, form the meat into golf ball sized meatballs. 3 
Place the remaining 1/4 cup of bread crumbs into a small bowl. Using a scale, weigh meatballs into 1.5-ounce portions and place on a sheet pan. Using your hands, shape the meatballs into rounds, roll in the bread crumbs and place the meatballs in individual, miniature muffin tin cups. In a large mixing bowl, combine the pork, lamb, ground round, spinach, cheese, egg, basil, parsley, garlic powder, salt, red pepper flakes, and 1/4 cup of the bread crumbs. Using your hands, mix all ingredients until well incorporated. Use immediately or place in refrigerator for up to 24 hours.
***I have always baked my 1 1/2 inch meatballs at 350 degrees for approximately 25 minutes, I sacrifice the middle ones to make sure it's not pink in the middle, I make 90 at a time and freeze them in batches of 6. Report Abuse. ***I have always baked my 1 1/2 inch meatballs at 350 degrees for approximately 25 minutes, I sacrifice the middle ones to make sure it's not pink in the middle, I make 90 at a time and freeze them in batches of 6. This way they're ready for meatball sandwiches on homemade pizza, and in Lasagna.