In a new Outlook message, on the Options tab, click Use Voting Buttons. See Figure A. 2. Click a set of default voting buttons, or click Custom to create custom voting buttons. Note If you are creating custom voting buttons, in the Options dialog box, make sure the Use voting buttons check box is selected. Type your customized button names, and separate the names with semicolons.
To use Outlook voting, start by creating a new email message. Enter your contacts individually in the To field, or use an existing distribution list. Type a subject into the Subject field. In Outlook 2007 or 2010, go to the Options tab of the message. Click on Use Voting Buttons in the Tracking Group. In Outlook 2003 or an earlier version, click the Options button on the message toolbar. In the Message Options dialog, select the Use Voting Buttons checkbox in the Voting and Tracking Options section
It is easy to create a poll in Microsoft Outlook by including voting buttons in an email message that you are sending. Recipients' votes are delivered to your Inbox. Note A Microsoft Exchange Server account is required. Create a new email message, or open a message that you want to reply to or forward. On the Options tab, in the Tracking group, click Use Voting Buttons. Click one of the following: Yes;No When you want only a definite yes or a no, this is the best choice
Select Custom... and wait for the Message Options dialog box to open. Under Voting and Tracking Options, check the Use Voting Buttons check box if it is not already checked. Clear the default contents from the Use Voting Buttons text box. Type in your own options for the voting buttons, and separate each button option with a semicolon. An example looks like this: Florida; Hawaii; Cancun. This example would give the user three buttons: one for Florida, one for Hawaii and one for Cancun. Click Close to return to the message. 
4. Choose the voting buttons you wish to use from the four options provided (Approve; Reject, Yes; No, Yes; No; Maybe, or Custom). 5. Make sure your message is the way you want it, including the question or statement that is to be voted on. Make sure you have included the proper recipients for the email message. Outlook tallies the votes for you so that they can easily be assessed. To Insert Voting Buttons into your Message: 1. Create your New Message. 2. Select the Options tab. 3. Select Use Voting Buttons.
Use voting buttons in Outlook! NOTE: When you send a message with voting buttons to a non-Outlook account (Gmail, Hotmail, etc.) or if an Outlook user accesses their account with the Outlook Web App, the message will go through but there will be no voting buttons available. Follow the steps below to send a message with voting buttons: 1  First, open a new email message from within Outlook 2010. 2  Click the Options tab on the Ribbon. 3  In the Tracking group, click on Use Voting Buttons.
1 In the Tracking group, click on Use Voting Buttons. 2  A drop-down menu will appear offering you 4 options: Approve/Reject; Yes/No; Yes/No/Maybe; or Custom…. 3  Click on Yes;No. 4  Your untitled message form appears with a note at the top that tells you that you have added voting buttons to this message. Follow the steps below to send a message with voting buttons: 1  First, open a new email message from within Outlook 2010. 2  Click the Options tab on the Ribbon. 3  In the Tracking group, click on Use Voting Buttons.
Add the voting buttons. Create a new e-mail message, or open a message that you want to reply to or forward. In the message window, on the Options tab, in the Tracking group, click Use Voting Buttons. Click one of the following: Approve;Reject This option is best when you need an authorization for an action. When the Message Options dialog box appears, under Voting and Tracking options, select the Use voting buttons check box. Select and delete the default button names, and then type the text that you want. Separate button names with semicolons. Click Close. Compose your message, and then click Send.