* But not just any parents. As Seitz-Wald explains, the unvaccinated kids are clustered in some of the wealthiest schools and neighborhoods, particularly in California, where some extremely expensive private schools have vaccination compliance rates as low as 20 percent. She describes it as I’m going to be pure and I want to keep my child pure.. But that doesn't quite get at why there's such class differences here, since presumably people of all stripes object to the notion of poisoning their children and therefore are vulnerable to propaganda that paints vaccinations as poisonous.
We vaccinate to protect our future. We don't vaccinate just to protect our children. We also vaccinate to protect our grandchildren and their grandchildren. With one disease, smallpox, we stopped the leak in the boat by eradicating the disease. Our children don't have to get smallpox shots any more because the disease no longer exists. If we keep vaccinating now, parents in the future may be able to trust that diseases like polio and meningitis won't infect, cripple, or kill children. Vaccinations are one of the best ways to put an end to the serious effects of certain diseases.
This article will present a few of the many reasons as to why parents are choosing to not vaccine their children. I am choosing to do this article and not one on why parents are choosing to vaccinate their children because it’s already very well known as to why they choose to vaccinate their children. More and more parents around the globe are choosing to opt out of vaccinating themselves and their children. As a result of this trend that’s been gaining more and more momentum, a harsh response has come from the “pro-vaccine” community-criticizing parents for their decision to not vaccinate.
Advertisement. By design, the vaccination is for everyone. The needles they want to stab into the fancy children of fancy Hollywood celebrities and dot-com billionaires are exactly the same brand and shape as the ones they put into kids who go to public school and whose parents buy their clothes at Target. She describes it as I’m going to be pure and I want to keep my child pure.. But that doesn't quite get at why there's such class differences here, since presumably people of all stripes object to the notion of poisoning their children and therefore are vulnerable to propaganda that paints vaccinations as poisonous.
Parents have varied reasons for choosing not to immunize their children. Some are concerned that vaccinations raise the risk of autism, although study after study has debunked this myth, Shapiro wrote in the Los Angeles Times. 
Anderson Cooper 360 | Source: CNN. Added on 8:56 PM ET, Tue February 3, 2015. Parents in one Oregon town share with CNN's Gary Tuchman why they choose not to vaccinate their children despite CDC recommendations. 
Parents love their kids and the vaccine “controversy” has made it difficult for many parents to know what to do. Parents who are choosing not to vaccinate their children are not just doing it based on belief, they are doing it based on science and information, some of which will be presented in this article. More and more parents around the globe are choosing to opt out of vaccinating themselves and their children. As a result of this trend that’s been gaining more and more momentum, a harsh response has come from the “pro-vaccine” community-criticizing parents for their decision to not vaccinate.
Here’s why the anti-vaxxers are wrong and Caplan and his co-authors are right to raise the idea of suing or criminally charging them: Parents who choose not to vaccinate their kids for reasons of personal belief pose a serious danger to the public. Measles vaccines are about 95 percent effective when given to children. Then again, to win damages, a plaintiff would only have to prove that it’s “more likely than not” that a nonvaccinated child infected another person. Parents who don’t vaccinate their kids may have the most heartfelt reason in the world: fear for their own children’s safety.
Parents who choose not to vaccinate their children, public health advocates say, are engaging in irresponsible behavior that puts the most vulnerable members of society at risk, and they must not understand science. Stunning video of humpback whales bathed in Northern Lights. It's a question that's being asked with increased intensity and often hostility in the wake of a measles outbreak at Disneyland. Parents who decide not to vaccinate their children are often well educated and cite complex reasons.