The endocrine system controls the body activities by producing chemical substances called hormones are chemical messengers, secreted by ductless gland known as endocrine glands. Exocrine gland secrete their products into ducts or channels, that carry them either to the outside of the body or into body cavities. 
Endocrine glands secrete their hormones directly into the bloodstream. Exocrine glands secrete their hormones into a duct that leaves the body externally: for example, sweat glands empty onto the skin. Endocrine gland secretes compounds (hormones) into the blood. Exocrine gland secretes compounds outside of the body (including into the GI tract since the GI tract is topologically outside of the body). Exocrine glands have ducts that carry their secretory product to a surface. These glands include the sweat, sebaceous, and mammary glands and, the glands that secrete digestive enzymes.The endocrine glands do not have ducts to carry their product to a surface. An endocrine gland empties its secretions directly into the blood for circulation throughout the body. Exocrine have duct But endocrian has no duct the secretion is direct release to the blood stream. An endocrine gland sends hormones or chemical messengers only via
Best Answer: Endocrine glands have no ducts. They secrete what is called hormone. The hormone is released in the blood stream and is circulated in the blood where it finds a particular organ, called target organ, to which goes and influences its physiology. An exocrine gland has duct, which is the conduit for the release of products produced by it.
• The main difference between the endocrine gland and exocrine gland is that, an endocrine gland lacks ducts and remains as blocks of tissue. • So, endocrine gland secrets chemical substances directly to the blood stream, while exocrine gland secrets its product into a duct. Gland is a specific structure which secrets various chemical substances such as enzymes, hormones, and metabolites. There are two types of glands in the body called endocrine glands and exocrine glands.
What is the difference between an endocrine and exocrine gland? a. endocrine glands use ducts to release their secretions, exocrine glands are ductless c. exocrine glands can secrete sweat, endocrine. 
Summary: 1. Exocrine glands have ducts to carry hormones, while endocrine glands are ductless. 2. Exocrine hormones are released into the external environment, or outside of the body. Endocrine hormones are released into the internal environment, or inside of the body. 3. Exocrine glands have sub-classifications. 4. Endocrine response is slower because hormones travel through the blood. 5.
Differences Between Endocrine vs Exocrine Glands. Gland is a specific structure which secrets various chemical substances such as enzymes, hormones, and metabolites. There are two types of glands in the body called endocrine glands and exocrine glands.
Exocrine Glands. Exocrine gland is a gland that secretes chemical substances into ducts. As an example, sweat gland and salivary glands. In salivary glands, saliva is produced within the gland, and it secrets into saliva duct and travels to the surface. Gland is a specific structure which secrets various chemical substances such as enzymes, hormones, and metabolites. There are two types of glands in the body called endocrine glands and exocrine glands.
Endocrine glands: these are glands that secrete their hormones directly into the blood rather than through a duct. Examples include-the thyroid gland, adrenal gland, and pituitary gland. Exocrine glands: these glands secrete enzymes into ducts. Examples include-sweat glands, salivary glands. They secrete what is called hormone. The hormone is released in the blood stream and is circulated in the blood where it finds a particular organ, called target organ, to which goes and influences its physiology. An exocrine gland has duct, which is the conduit for the release of products produced by it.
Endocrine Glands Vs Exocrine Glands. By definition, an endocrine gland is one that secretes its hormones directly into the bloodstream from where it is transported to the target cells, tissues or organs to bring about its effects. Endocrine glands are also often referred to as ductless glands. On the other hand, an exocrine gland is a gland that secretes its hormones into a system of ducts that lead to the external environment. As a result, exocrine glands are commonly known as duct glands. 