1 Search for free directories and submit your website link on those sites. 2  Some of the popular free ones are: 3  http://www.brownbook.net/. 4  dmoz.org. 5  yelp.com. 6  Google Places. 7  If you maintain a blog or have friends that maintain a blog, have them write a blurb about your website and link to it. Google does not index your entire site all at once, but it indexes your site methodically over time. The reason why Google doesn't instantly index your entire website and show those pages in its search results from day 1 is because they manage tens of billions of pages in their search engine database.
It takes a long time (meaning a few weeks or a couple of months some times) for new websites pages to appear high up in search results because Google's algorithm takes some time to calculate the relationship of your site with the billions of other pages online. Google does not index your entire site all at once, but it indexes your site methodically over time. The reason why Google doesn't instantly index your entire website and show those pages in its search results from day 1 is because they manage tens of billions of pages in their search engine database.
Ranking Factors. Where your site eventually ranks in the Google Search Engine Results page (SERPS) will depend on a large number of factors (the number is unknown but it’s likely to be several hundred), many of which we can only speculate about. Results. This is what you will see on the Search Engine Results page (SERPs) – the list of links and page descriptions that are “returned” to you when you conduct a search or query. Google searches their own index for relevant (matching) pages and shows you their best, most possibly helpful results.
It is possible for a site to be crawled/indexed within 4 days to 4 weeks, but it may take longer. The good news is that you can cover the first bullet using social media, commenting, guest blogging, and email marketing. The second bullet has more to do with how your site is built and how clean the code actually is. There is no set time for Google specifically to initially index your site – the time taken can vary based on: 1  Popularity of the site (whether it has any inbound links to it). 2  Whether the content is crawl-able (server responses and content type).
The site needs to be indexed by the search engine. There is no set time for Google specifically to initially index your site – the time taken can vary based on: 1  Popularity of the site (whether it has any inbound links to it). 2  Whether the content is crawl-able (server responses and content type). 3  Site structure (how pages interlink)
There is no guarenteed length of time in which a search engine will list your website. If your website is completely new, and you have no links from other websites, it's best to manually submit your website to Google. 
You can tell if Google has indexed (included) your website in their database by going to Google.com and doing a search for site:www.yourwebsite.com (site: is a special way of saying show me the search results for this website domain name only). Google does not index your entire site all at once, but it indexes your site methodically over time. The reason why Google doesn't instantly index your entire website and show those pages in its search results from day 1 is because they manage tens of billions of pages in their search engine database.
When we’re considering the question of how long it will take for a new site to get ranked, there will always be deeper layers to explore; veritable rabbit holes of information, education opportunities, tasks and also, naturally, at times, a need for technical expertise. Results. This is what you will see on the Search Engine Results page (SERPs) – the list of links and page descriptions that are “returned” to you when you conduct a search or query. Google searches their own index for relevant (matching) pages and shows you their best, most possibly helpful results.
Google is also very careful about not including spam-like websites in its search results, so new sites take a little bit of time to build up a reputation with Google. There are some things you can do to get more of Google's attention and give your site a riority when indexing your website to speed up the process. Google does not index your entire site all at once, but it indexes your site methodically over time. The reason why Google doesn't instantly index your entire website and show those pages in its search results from day 1 is because they manage tens of billions of pages in their search engine database.
The good news however is that there are four steps you can follow to help your website show up in searches on Google, Yahoo, Bing and other search engines as quickly as possible. By following these steps, you can expect your new website to show up in four days to four weeks (but it can always vary a bit). One way to quickly see if your site has been indexed and what pages have been discovered is to go to any search engine and type “site: www.yourdomain.com” in the search box. The results you see will be everything that the search engine knows about your website.