Yields approximately 1 1/2 Cups (1/2 lb.) of Sprouts. Put 1/3 - 1/2 Cup of seed * into a bowl or Sprouter. Seed Prep. Most Mung Beans are grown in China by farmers-often with little machinery. After harvest they are left to dry on gravel roads-so they are dusty. 
Yields approximately 1 Cup (1/2 lb.) of Sprouts. Seed Prep Measure out 1/2 Cup of seed * Rinse your seeds to remove dust or plant debris. Soak Transfer your seeds-if necessary-into your Sprouter, or a bowl. Add 2-3 times as much cool (60-70 degree) water. That's the way we like our Bean Sprouts. Depending on your climate and the time of year you are sprouting and most importantly your personal preference-You may Rinse and Drain again at 8-12 hour intervals for up to 6 days. We Do Not recommend doing so, unless you're doing a science experiment.
The appearance of mung bean plants is more like garden beans than soybeans, and they can grow up to 24 to 30 inches (60–75 cm) tall; they also have smaller leaves than soybeans, and a moderate number of branches. Mung beans start to form once plants reach a height of 15 to 18 inches (38–45 cm), and are typically ready for harvesting 100 days after sowing. The beans will not mature at the same time, so harvest when about 60% of pods have reached maturity.
Time Frame. Bean seeds germinate within 8 to 10 days under optimal conditions. They emerge as a tiny hooked stem with one single lobe and perhaps a cracked seed coat. Within a few days, the first real leaves emerge. Green beans are harvested within 60 to 75 days, depending on the variety. Warning. Bean seeds are damaged by soaking in water or by being planted in very wet soil. Plant them in warm, moist, but not soggy, soil at a depth of 1 inch beneath the surface.
Choose a small bean or seed. Nearly any type of bean can be sprouted, but small beans are generally the healthiest choice. Many large bean varieties are more likely to develop mold upon sitting in moist conditions for prolonged periods of time.
Tips. 1  Experiment with a variety of beans and seeds. 2  Mung beans make an especially good choice, but adzuki beans, lentils, and soybeans are also common. 3  Other seeds, such as clover, red cabbage, sunflower, snow pea, beet, broccoli, onion, and wheatgrass, can also be used. Nearly any type of bean can be sprouted, but small beans are generally the healthiest choice. Many large bean varieties are more likely to develop mold upon sitting in moist conditions for prolonged periods of time.
Three Methods: Picking Beans Sprouting in a Jar Sprouting Under Pressure. Bean sprouts are a raw, crunchy vegetable found in many Asian and health food dishes. They are remarkably easy to grow indoors, and the process only takes a few days to complete. Nearly any type of bean can be sprouted, but small beans are generally the healthiest choice. Many large bean varieties are more likely to develop mold upon sitting in moist conditions for prolonged periods of time.
As well as growing mung beans as sprouts, they can also be planted out in the garden. Late spring, when soils are warm, is the best time for planting as the soil is warm, and beans should be able to be harvested in as little as three months (typically 100 days). Mung beans start to form once plants reach a height of 15 to 18 inches (38–45 cm), and are typically ready for harvesting 100 days after sowing. The beans will not mature at the same time, so harvest when about 60% of pods have reached maturity.
Mung bean sprouts can be added to a dish in the final few minutes of cooking. Sprouted lentils are fully cooked after four or five minutes of steaming. Sprouted chickpeas and adzuki beans need around 15 minutes of cooking. Alfalfa is a legume just like lentils, chickpeas, and mung beans—they can all be sprouted with the same grow-in-the-jar method. You may be picturing alfalfa sprouts and mung beans sprouts in your local Chinese take-out. These looked more bean than sprout; I was a little wary