The Infrared Waves Frequency range lies in between 300 GHz - 405 THz and hence the Infrared Wavelength is in between 750 nm - 1 mm. The 0.75-1.4 µm wavelength range of infrared region lies in near infrared region while the 15 - 1000 µm wavelength range lies in far infrared region. The infrared waves are of wavelength well below the visible region of the EM spectrum. The infrared are not visible to our eye since they are outside the narrow window of the visible frequencies. In other words, we can say that we are blind for all the spectrum except the visible spectrum.
mi·cro·wave. adj. Relating to or being electromagnetic radiation between radio waves and infrared waves in the electromagnetic spectrum, having frequencies between 300 megahertz and 300 gigahertz and wavelengths between 1 meter and 1 millimeter. n. 1. A wave of microwave radiation. 
Infrared Waves Definition. The infrared radiation or waves can be defined as waves with the wavelength in the range of 0.75 µm to 1 mm in the EM spectrum. Electromagnetic waves ranges from the very high wavelength (kms) to low wavelength (picometers). The infrared waves are of wavelength well below the visible region of the EM spectrum. The infrared are not visible to our eye since they are outside the narrow window of the visible frequencies. In other words, we can say that we are blind for all the spectrum except the visible spectrum.
Lesson Summary. Infrared radiation is made up of electromagnetic waves with a wavelength between 700 nm (nanometers) and 1 mm, just beyond what our eyes can detect on the red side of the spectrum. Most warm objects in our everyday experiences emit infrared, and half of the energy produced by the Sun is also infrared. This lesson will explain what infrared radiation is, and discuss a number of practical uses and effects of infrared, including its connection to climate change and the way the atmosphere responds to infrared waves.
The hotter an object is, the more infrared radiation it emits. Light from the sun reaching earth. Infrared radiation is a type of electromagnetic radiation, which involves waves rather than particles. This means that, unlike conduction and convection, radiation can even pass through the vacuum of space. This is why we can still feel the heat of the Sun, although it is 150 million km away from the Earth. 
Radio waves are a type of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum longer than infrared light. Like all other electromagnetic waves, they travel at the speed of light. Naturally occurring radio waves are made by lightning, or by certain astronomical objects. 
Other electromagnetic waves include gamma rays, x-rays, ultraviolet, visible light, microwaves, and radio. Infrared waves are electromagnetic radiation of a particular wavelength or color that we have named 'infrared.' They are between 700 nm (nanometers) and 1 mm. Note that 1 mm is equal to 1,000,000 nanometers. Lesson Summary. Infrared waves are just part of the electromagnetic spectrum; to be exact, they're waves that have a wavelength between 700 nm (nanometers) and 1 mm. This can't quite be detected by human eyes-it is just beyond the red side of the rainbow.
Abbr. IR. 1. Of or relating to electromagnetic radiation between microwaves and red visible light in the electromagnetic spectrum, having frequencies between 300 gigahertz and 400 terahertz and wavelengths between 1 millimeter and 750 nanometers. 2. infrared. n. 1. (General Physics) the part of the electromagnetic spectrum with a longer wavelength than light but a shorter wavelength than radio waves; radiation with wavelength between 0.8 micrometres and 1 millimetre. adj.
The infrared radiation or waves can be defined as waves with the wavelength in the range of 0.75 µm to 1 mm in the EM spectrum. The infrared waves are of wavelength well below the visible region of the EM spectrum. The infrared are not visible to our eye since they are outside the narrow window of the visible frequencies. In other words, we can say that we are blind for all the spectrum except the visible spectrum.