Microcrystalline Cellulose provides many benefits when it is used as a connective agent in prescription drugs, over the counter medications, and dietary supplements. Microcrystalline Cellulose also enables the breakdown of the supplement, medicine, or over the counter drug at the proper rate for optimal absorption. Microcrystalline Cellulose has no taste or flavor, so supplements that contain Microcrystalline Cellulose are easily taken.
Cellulose gel, INS No. 460. DEFINITION. Microcrystalline cellulose is a purified, partially depolymerized cellulose prepared by treating alpha-cellulose, obtained as a pulp from fibrous plant material, with mineral acids. The degree of polymerization is typically less than 400. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Microcrystalline cellulose is a term for refined wood pulp and is used as a texturizer, an anti-caking agent, a fat substitute, an emulsifier, an extender, and a bulking agent in food production. The most common form is used in vitamin supplements or tablets. Approved within the European Union as a thickener, stabilizer or emulsifiers microcrystalline cellulose was granted the E number E460(i) with basic cellulose given the number E460.
As the name implies, Microcrystalline Cellulose is basically cellulose and is derived from high quality wood pulp. While cellulose is the most abundant organic material, Microcrystalline Cellulose can only be derived from a special grade of alpha cellulose. In many ways, Cellulose makes the ideal excipient. Microcrystalline Cellulose is hardly a new product. As a naturally occurring substance, it has proven to be stable, safe and physiologically inert. Microcrystalline Cellulose revolutionised tableting because of its unique compressibility and carrying capacity.
Microcrystalline Cellulose. Microcrystalline Cellulose (MCC) is a kind of purified and partially depolymerized cellulose, white, odorless, tasteless and in the shape of crystalline powder made up of porous particles. In the Food Industry. In the food industry, Microcrystalline Cellulose (MCC) can be used as an important base in functional foods and is an ideal health food additive. 1). Microcrystalline Cellulose (MCC) can maintain emulsification and foam stability.
pear image by Andrzej Wlodarczyk from Fotolia.com. Microcrystalline cellulose is a widely used excipient, an inert substance used in many pill and tablet formulations. As an insoluble fiber, microcrystalline cellulose is not absorbed into the blood stream, so it cannot cause toxicity when taken orally. In fact, it is so inert it is often used as a placebo in controlled drug studies.
Microcrystalline Cellulose Benefits. Microcrystalline Cellulose provides many benefits when it is used as a connective agent in prescription drugs, over the counter medications, and dietary supplements. Microcrystalline Cellulose allows the creation of an unbreakable pill or tablet. Microcrystalline Cellulose also enables the breakdown of the supplement, medicine, or over the counter drug at the proper rate for optimal absorption. Microcrystalline Cellulose has no taste or flavor, so supplements that contain Microcrystalline Cellulose are easily taken.
Microcrystalline Cellulose, CAS# 9004-34-6, is a term for refined wood pulp manufactured through plant fibre hydrolysis, available as fine white or almost white odorless powder. Microcrystalline Cellulose is widely used as emulsifiers. It is widely accepted as safe food additive in many countries with E number E460. 