The company is discontinuing its king-size Smarties boxes. Bags of Smarties weighing 203 grams are being replaced with recyclable canisters, with lids that double as measuring cups to help consumers pour out a 70-calorie, 15 Smartie portion. 
Quantity Per Package: 300 rolls per bag. Each roll contains 15 Smarties tablets. Shipping Weight: 5 lbs. Smarties Candy Nutrition Facts: This roll of Smarties contains 15 tablets and serving size is 1 roll totaling 7 grams. 300 servings per container. 25 calories per serving size. 0 grams of fat, sodium, and protein. 6 grams of carbohydrates and 6 grams of sugar per serving.
Ingredients in Smarties candies are dextrose, citric acid, calcium stearate, artificial flavors, colors. There are 25 calories and six grams of sugar in a roll of Smarties. Smarties are gluten free and vegan. Each package contains an assortment of pastel colors, including white, yellow, pink, green, purple, and orange. The flavor of each color is as follows; white is orange cream, yellow is pineapple, pink is cherry, green is strawberry, purple is grape, and orange is orange.
The Smarties brand is a world-famous brand with colours consisting of Red, yellow, orange, green, purple, pink, brown and blue! SMARTIES have been reformulated to remove artificial colours, making sure children can now safely enjoy the fun of colours. Smarties allows for hours of inspiring creative imagination. 
 To determine the formula mass (also called _______________ mass) of a compound.  To determine the percentage composition of a compound. Materials: Package of Smarties® Procedure: 1. Obtain a package of Smarties® and count the number of each color in your pack. Enter in data table. 2. Use the data entered to determine the “compound’s” CHEMICAL FORMULA. (Use the first letter of the color as its element symbol & be sure to use the proper subscripts.) Ex. W 5 Y 3 G 2 etc… 3. 
Eight children, one for each Smarties colour, are paired with eight adult artists, commissioned to create a work of art inspired by their designated colour. The campaign is online at Facebook and YouTube. Read on for Blue, Pink, Red, Yellow, Orange, Brown, Purple and Green. Smarties 8 Colours of Fun. Nestle Nestlé australia is Promoting smarties chocolates in an integrated advertising, “Campaign the 8 colours Of”, fun aimed at children and their. parents
Smarties are one of Britain’s best-loved brands. There are eight colours to choose from; red, orange, blue, green, yellow, pink, violet and brown. The orange Smartie is flavoured with natural orange oil. Smarties are not only fun to play with, but have also contained no artificial colours or flavours since 2006.
Smarties are available in the tube format (single tube or multipack), a bag of mini cartons perfect for parties or Halloween, and in sharing bags. Smarties is also one of the biggest selling boxed Easter eggs and at Christmas has special packs available; Giant Tubes and Novelties. Smarties is one of our oldest brands. There are eight colours to choose from; red, orange, blue, green, yellow, pink, violet and brown. The orange Smartie is flavoured with natural orange oil. Smarties are not only fun to play with, but have also contained no artificial colours or flavours since 2006.
In the United States, Smarties are a type of tablet candy produced by Smarties Candy Company, formerly known as Ce De Candy Inc., since 1949. Smarties are produced in factories in both Union Township, Union County, New Jersey and Newmarket, Ontario. Each package contains an assortment of pastel colors, including white, yellow, pink, green, purple, and orange. The flavor of each color is as follows; white is orange cream, yellow is pineapple, pink is cherry, green is strawberry, purple is grape, and orange is orange.
Larger ones have a diameter of 2.5 cm and are about 6 mm thick. Smarties come in combinations of colors within their wrapped rolls; these include white and pastel shades of yellow, pink, orange, purple, and green. Each color's flavor is different. They are usually packaged as a roll of 15 candies. All Smarties candies are free of animal products and are thus suitable for vegans. Each package contains an assortment of pastel colors, including white, yellow, pink, green, purple, and orange. The flavor of each color is as follows; white is orange cream, yellow is pineapple, pink is cherry, green is strawberry, purple is grape, and orange is orange.