Interdisciplinary. Welding engineering is more interdisciplinary than most engineering fields. In choosing the materials for fabricating a structure, a welding engineer is a materials engineer who must understand how steel or aluminum responds to the heat and stresses of welding. Design for welding is an important and often overlooked consideration. Structural engineering is a critical and specialized discipline, but, since most structures are welded, welding engineers have a hand in this field as well.
Who is the AWS Certified Welding Engineer? A person with the demonstrated education, experience, and knowledge as defined by this information and who successfully passes the required examinations is considered qualified as an AWS Certified Welding Engineer (CWEng). 
While most may think of welding in terms of a process, it is actually a complex engineering discipline that involves aspects of materials science, design, inspection, mechanical and electronic systems, lasers, and robots. The Welding Engineering program at Ohio State offers students the best of all worlds! The department is small and friendly, where students interact frequently with faculty and staff and have many opportunities for involvement and research.
The Welding Engineering program is strongly committed to graduate education. Many Welding Engineering graduate program students are sponsored by research grants, fellowships or corporate funding in the form of Graduate Research Associateship positions. Students with bachelor of science degrees in welding engineering or other engineering disciplines, such as mechanical, electrical, industrial, manufacturing and materials science, are ideal candidates for this program.
Planning Pre-production Duties. A Certified Welding Engineer is involved in all phases of a welding project, including planning, drawing up and approving contract documents and/or consulting with the client or other technical personnel involved in the project. 
In my mind, a “welder with a certificate” has been trained and tested in personally making specific types of welds on specific types of materials with specific welding processes requiring specific qualification test types. Eight years as a certified welder in the oil patch and mining industry are what convinced me to go back to college and become a degreed professional. And as you have pointed out, starting out as a certified welder will contribute to ones degree-ability and employ-ability as a Welding Engineer.
A welding engineer is quite different from a certified welder. I’m a certified welder I got my certificate on pressure pipe welding from the Mississauga’s institute of Weldtech Training centre. But I have not completed my grads. I would like do some complimentary course like a degree or diploma. Eight years as a certified welder in the oil patch and mining industry are what convinced me to go back to college and become a degreed professional. And as you have pointed out, starting out as a certified welder will contribute to ones degree-ability and employ-ability as a Welding Engineer.
In fact, a welding engineer is involved in removing the welder from the actual point of welding, for example, using robotics. Removing a human welder from the point of welding is difficult because it is difficult to get a machine to mimic the sense and skilled of a highly qualify human welder. Design for welding is an important and often overlooked consideration. Structural engineering is a critical and specialized discipline, but, since most structures are welded, welding engineers have a hand in this field as well.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A welding engineer is a person with the demonstrated education, experience, and knowledge in specialized fields of welding, brazing, cutting and materials joining. Welding engineering is a broad field that covers fields from automotive and shipbuilding to nuclear power, areospace and mining. Welding technology is the study and application of the many processes of joining various metals. Welding Engineering is a far deeper study and application into the individual … characteristics of each metal. A welding engineer will decide what metals are used in a project and what process to weld those metals. Weld techs will usually just receive blue prints and weld as instructed. Welding technology is usually a 2 year degree, and Welding Engineering is a 4+year degree