Withdrawals made after age 59 and 1/2 are normal retirement withdrawals and are not taxed. You paid tax on that income when you first contributed to the Roth IRA. If the withdrawal is made before age 59 and 1/2 and is only up to the amount that has been contributed to the Roth IRA then no income tax is charged. Withdrawals of contributions are tax-free.
Roth IRA Earnings. To withdraw earnings from a Roth tax-and penalty-free, you must have owned a Roth for at least five years and attained an age of 59 1/2. If you are 59 1/2 but have owned an account for less than five years, you will owe just income tax on the withdrawal. In addition to income tax, traditional IRA owners who withdraw funds before the age of 59 1/2, with few exceptions, must also pay a 10 percent penalty tax. For example, if you are 50 and have a marginal tax rate of 25 percent and you take $20,000 from your IRA, you will owe the IRS $7,000.
You should not mix Roth IRA funds with the other types of IRAs. If you do, the Roth IRA funds will become taxable. Regular Income Tax Only: Voluntary On-Time Withdrawal/Traditional IRAs and Other Non-Roth IRAs. Once you reach age 59½, you can withdraw money without a 10% penalty from any type of IRA. If it's a Roth IRA, you won't owe any income tax. If it's not you will. If the money is deposited in a traditional IRA, SEP IRA, Simple IRA or SARSEP IRA you will owe taxes at your current tax rate on the amount you take out. For example, if you are in the 15% tax bracket, your withdrawal will be taxed at 15%
Taxes on 401(k) and IRA Withdrawals. The rates are the same, but the amount of money that is taxed depends on whether you made pre-tax or after-tax contributions to your accounts. By Kimberly LankfordSee my bio, plus links to all my recent stories. , May 8, 2008. Follow @Kiplinger. . 
If you own a Roth IRA, you may be under the impression that withdrawals are always income-tax-free. Not true. Even worse, some withdrawals can be socked with a 10% penalty on top of the income tax bill. Here’s what you need to know if you took some Roth withdrawals last year. (For a list of the exceptions, see How to make penalty-free IRA withdrawals .) If you owe the penalty tax, fill out IRS Form 5329 (Additional Taxes on Qualified Plans (Including IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Plans) and enter the penalty on line 58 of Form 1040.
In a traditional IRA, any pre-tax contributions and all earnings are taxed at the time of withdrawal. The withdrawals are taxed as regular income, and the tax rate is based on your income in the year of the withdrawal. Although taxes are assessed at the time of withdrawal, there are no additional penalties, provided that the funds are used for a qualified purpose or that the account holder is 59.5 or older. Traditional IRA contributions can be tax deductible or partially tax deductible based on MAGI. In 2014, an individual with a MAGI of up to $70,000 is eligible for at least partial deductibility. There are no income limits on who can contribute to a traditional IRA.
As withdrawals from Roth IRA accounts are not taxed, Roth IRA contributions are not tax deductible. However, only individuals with a modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) of $112,000 or less are eligible to maximize the annual contribution limit. Traditional IRA contributions can be tax deductible or partially tax deductible based on MAGI. In 2014, an individual with a MAGI of up to $70,000 is eligible for at least partial deductibility. There are no income limits on who can contribute to a traditional IRA.
Ultimate guide to retirement. Your withdrawals from a Roth IRA are tax free as long as you are 59 ½ or older and your account is at least five years old. Withdrawals from traditional IRAs are taxed as regular income, based on your tax bracket for the year in which you make the withdrawal. 
While you pay no tax on contributions that you make to a traditional IRA, all withdrawals are taxable at your regular income tax rates. For example, you made a tax-deductible contribution of $10,000 to your traditional IRA, and over many years the value of the account grew to $50,000. Roth IRA withdrawals are completely tax-free when taken at retirement, representing a significant benefit to the account owner. This is an advantage over a traditional IRA or over investing outside an IRA and paying capital gains taxes on the growth of your investments.
In a Roth IRA, there is no tax due at withdrawal on either contributions or earnings, provided you meet certain requirements: the account must have been active for at least five years, and either the funds are used for a qualified home purchase or the account holder is 59.5 or older. Traditional IRA contributions can be tax deductible or partially tax deductible based on MAGI. In 2014, an individual with a MAGI of up to $70,000 is eligible for at least partial deductibility. There are no income limits on who can contribute to a traditional IRA.