Desiccators are important for drying reactants prior to their use in chemical reactions. They are usually sealed air-tight to prevent water vapor from entering, and contain a desiccant in order to absorb any water vapor that does enter the chamber.
Desiccators are sealable enclosures containing desiccants used for preserving moisture-sensitive items such as cobalt chloride paper for another use. A common use for desiccators is to protect chemicals which are hygroscopic or which react with water from humidity.
The desiccator is used to store dried samples in a dry atmosphere. It should not be used to dry an object, but to maintain an already dried object indefinitely in a dry condition. Usage: 1  To open-slide lid horizontally across the top to one side until it comes off. 2  Use one hand to hold the bottom of the desiccator while using the other hand to grasp the knob. 3  To close-place lid partly on the top and slide across until desiccator is completely closed and then rotate lid gently in both directions.
Desiccators. Designed to absorb moisture a desiccant is used in specially-designed, sealable canisters or cabinets that store materials with low-humidity storage requirements. Once the moisture-sensitive object is placed inside the canister with the desiccant it will remain dry.
Desiccation is a method of removing water or water vapour from something. A container holding desiccant can be placed on a window sill to try to absorb the water vapour from the air in a room, so preventing the water vapour condensing into water on the glass, from whence it can form pools on the window sill.
In other words, desiccators are used to dry any chemicals that may be used in reactions. Desiccators are usually sealed so that outside air cannot enter the chamber. In some cases, desiccators may also be fitted with a vacuum hose in order to remove excess air from the inside of the chamber. A desiccant, or drying material, is usually added to the desiccator to absorb water vapor whenever the desiccator is opened.