VO2 max (also maximal oxygen consumption, maximal oxygen uptake, peak oxygen uptake or maximal aerobic capacity) is the maximum rate of oxygen consumption as measured during incremental exercise, most typically on a motorized treadmill.
Pulmonary ventilation, or breathing, is the movement of air into and out of the lungs. Pulmonary diffusion is the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between the lungs and the blood. In normal individuals, pulmonary diffusion is not a limiting factor to VO2max.
Integration of Cardiovascular and Respiratory Function  Oxygen consumption is the amount of O 2 taken up and consumed by the body for metabolic processes. Cardiovascular and Respiratory Systems Working Together. Lactic Threshold and Differences Between Trained and Untrained Individuals.
VO 2 max is expressed either as an absolute rate in (for example) litres of oxygen per minute (L/min) or as a relative rate in (for example) millilitres of oxygen per kilogram of body mass per minute (e.g., mL/(kg·min)).
Oxygen Consumption-VO2  Is the amount of Oxygen taken up and consumed by the body for metabolic process  Equal to the amount of oxygen inspired minus. Exercise Metabolism. Oxygen deficit and steady state VO 2.
Oxygen consumption is dependent on the ability of the heart to pump out blood, the ability of the tissues to extract oxygen from the blood, the ability to ventilate and the ability of the alveoli to extract oxygen from the air.
The average untrained healthy female will score a VO 2 max of approximately 27–31 mL/(kg·min). These scores can improve with training and decrease with age, though the degree of trainability also varies very widely: conditioning may double VO 2 max in some individuals, and will never improve it in others.
In the exercising human, maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) is limited by the ability of the cardiorespiratory system to deliver oxygen to the exercising muscles.
Maximal oxygen consumption reflects the aerobic physical fitness of the individual, and is an important determinant of their endurance capacity during prolonged, sub-maximal exercise. The name is derived from V-volume, O 2 - oxygen, max-maximum.