Commuters heading in the CBD from north of Wellington have the worst morning commute, with Petone residents taking 26 minutes 47 seconds on average to get in to town, up from 12.09, an increase of 120 per cent. The best morning commutes are for Island Bay (whose trip time increases by 47 per cent during peak hours), Oriental Bay (43 per cent), and Khandallah (32 per cent). In the evenings Hataitai and Oriental Bay residents have the worst commutes, with their trip times both increasing by 85 percent during 4pm and 6pm.
Commuters heading in the CBD from north of Wellington have the worst morning commute, with Petone residents taking 26 minutes 47 seconds on average to get in to town, up from 12.09, an increase of 120 per cent. Takapuna and Petone are Auckland and Wellington's respective worst suburbs for the morning commute into the two cities' CBDs, a study has found.
NZ's worst (and best) big city commuting times. Takapuna and Petone are Auckland and Wellington's respective worst suburbs for the morning commute into the two cities' CBDs, a study has found.
The suburbs of Takapuna and Petone see the biggest increase of traffic during the commute to and from work in Auckland and Wellington. File photo / NZ Herald. Takapuna and Petone are Auckland and Wellington's respective worst suburbs for the morning commute into the two cities' CBDs, a study has found. The best morning commutes are for Island Bay (whose trip time increases by 47 per cent during peak hours), Oriental Bay (43 per cent), and Khandallah (32 per cent). In the evenings Hataitai and Oriental Bay residents have the worst commutes, with their trip times both increasing by 85 percent during 4pm and 6pm.
Albany was the next worst in Auckland for the morning commute, with the average morning commute at 40 minutes 48 seconds, up from 16 minutes eight seconds off-peak, an increase of 153 per cent. Takapuna and Petone are Auckland and Wellington's respective worst suburbs for the morning commute into the two cities' CBDs, a study has found.
Average Commute Times. The average travel time to work in the United States is 25.4 minutes, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Move around the map or enter your town or zip code to find commute times for your area. 
Flying time from LAX to AKL. The total flight duration from LAX to AKL is 13 hours, 31 minutes. This assumes an average flight speed for a commercial airliner of 500 mph, which is equivalent to 805 km/h or 434 knots. It also adds an extra 30 minutes for take-off and landing. Your exact time may vary depending on wind speeds. The calculation of flight time is based on the straight line flight distance from LAX to AKL (as the crow flies), which is about 6,504 miles or 10 467 kilometers. Your trip begins at Los Angeles International Airport in Los Angeles, California. It ends at Auckland Airport in Auckland, New Zealand. Your flight direction from LAX to AKL is Southwest (-132 degrees from North). The flight time calculator measures the average flight duration between points. It uses the great circle formula to compute the travel mileage
The average commute from Takapuna to the Auckland CBD between 7am and 9am is 28 minutes 25 seconds, up from 10 minutes 12 seconds during the free flow period, an increase of 179 per cent. Takapuna and Petone are Auckland and Wellington's respective worst suburbs for the morning commute into the two cities' CBDs, a study has found.
Non-stop flights from Auckland to Los Angeles takes anywhere between 12 hours to 16 hours based on the airline you choose. Fastest one-stop flight between Auckland and Los Angeles takes close to 18 hours. However, some airlines could take as long as 36 hours based on the stopover destination and waiting duration. This is the average non-stop flight time from Auckland to Los Angeles. If you are actually flying from Auckland, New Zealand to Los Angeles, United States or if you are just curious to know the flight time between Auckland and Los Angeles, this page will give you the information you are looking for.