how long does atenolol stay in you system after taking it like how long till its not doing its job and not flowing through you. Update: not alcohol ...atenolol the medication its a beta blocker. Best Answer: The plasma half-life of atenolol is about 6 hours but this may rise in severe renal impairment since the kidney is the major route of elimination. Half-life means that half of the drug in circulation gets excreted in 6 hours. Half of the remaining drug gets excreted in another 6 hours and so on. Usually 5 half lives is taken as the washout period of the drug from circulation
hi beta blockers like propanalol will help. How long does it take for beta blocker ti leave your body, was on metropol i was on 25 mg fir 3 months and half a pill for 1 month, is it safe to stop. Depends on the indication for what you were taking drugs. Hello Beta blockers include drugs like Propranolol, Atenolol which are used in anxiety apart from a number of cardiac conditions. These drugs reduce the symptoms of anxiety and are to be taken on SOS basis.
Calcium Channel blocker have a long half life in the body. They can  stay in your system up to 12 days after you stop taking them. 2 people found this useful. Edit. 
Florida. I was prescribed a dosage of 25 mg/day Metoprolol (beta blocker) about 14 years ago for hypertension, elevated blood pressure and during the 13th year I noticed my heart rate had been decreasing down to a rate in the high 40’s to low 50’s per minute. 
Propranolol is still sometimes used as an anxiolytic,but this is not (fortunately) to be confused with a tranquilliser. Propranolol is a non-selective beta-blocker, this means it blocks all beta receptors,not just those in the heart and blood vessels. This means it helps suppress the somatic or physical symptoms of anxiety,but not the mental ones. It slows the pulse/heart rate and reduces sweating and butterflies in the stomach. Best Answer: Its takes about 48 hours to work but you'd need a higher dose than 20mgs. Take it daily in the morning. It should stop the physical symptoms such as fast heart beat and palpitations. It won't really stop the mental feeling of anxiety.
Detailed Answer: Hi back, The maximum plasma half life of metoprolol is 7 hours and it needs up to 28 hours for metoprolol to be eliminated from the body. So after 28 hours the metoprolol is completely eliminated. 
The effects of some beta-blockers don’t last very long. So if you need beta-blocker tablets to help control a long-term condition, you may need to take them once or twice a day. Beta-blockers may be prescribed in combination with other drugs such as nitrates. 1 Slow heart rate. 2  One of the ways in which beta-blockers work is to slow down your heart rate. 3  If you’re worried that your heart rate is too slow, see your doctor. 4  A slow heart rate in itself may not matter, as long as you feel well with it.
Follow the label directions on how often to take a beta-blocker. The number of doses you take each day, the time allowed between doses, and how long you need to take the medication will depend on your condition. Ask your doctor what to do if you miss a dose. If you have asthma or COPD, your doctor may not prescribe a beta-blocker because it may worsen symptoms. If you have heart failure and severe lung congestion, your doctor will treat your congestion before prescribing a beta-blocker. While you are taking a beta-blocker, you may need to record your pulse every day.