Best Answer: Annual salary is what you make in a year: $50,000 would equal $961.54 a week. you would take 50,000 and divide by 52, that tells the weekly salary of an employee. FYI, Salary individuals typically means they make a set amount regardless of hours worked it a week. $1000. a week salary would be $52,000 annual salary. The employee could work 40 hrs, 50 hrs, or even 30 hrs a week and they still make that $1000 week. Report Abuse. mean either means cruel or average. I'm thinking it means average in this context. annual means yearly Salary is what people pay you to do a job. So, mean annual salary means the average amount someone gets in a year. It also implies data for more than one year, and some fluctuations.
Definition. Total amount of income earned annually. Gross annual income represents the amount of money a person earns in one year from all sources before taxes. When preparing an income tax return, the gross annual income figure is the base figure with which to start.
Annual Salary. People generally think first about their annual wages or salary when asked about earnings. For example, if you earn $45,000 per year, that's what you'll think of as your annual wages or salary. However, your wages or salary doesn't encompass all of your compensation, especially if you work full time and for a large, established company. 
Confidence votes 2.6K. The mean annual salary is the average salary being paid for a job or position. Your annual salary is the amount that you will get paid in a year assuming you work the entire year at that salary. For example, if you are paid semi-monthly (such as US military pay, 1st and 15th of each month), and your annual salary is $24,000, your gross paycheck (before taxes) will be $2,000. Annual means once a year, or it could also mean the total for a year as in annual salary. Also it means that things can happen every year more than one time just every year. ….
Instead, your annual pay is the amount of money that you actually make throughout the course of the year. If you are paid on an hourly basis and your hourly rate of pay is $10 per hour, that computes to a base rate of pay of about $20,800 per year. However, if you work a significant amount of overtime throughout the year, your annual pay might be substantially more, perhaps $25,000 per year.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Annual Pay is what you are paid for the whole year. Obviously, you can calculate what you will be paid per month by dividing by 12. Assuming a 40 hour work-week, you can calculate your hourly rate by dividing your annual salary by 2080 (52*40).
Most monetary components of compensation are quoted as either a salary or a wage. A salary is the amount that an employee receives in exchange for working over a specific period of time without regard for the precise number of hours worked. 
Your annual salary is the amount that you will get paid in a year assuming you work the entire … year at that salary. For example, if you are paid semi-monthly (such as US military pay, 1st and 15th of each month), and your annual salary is $24,000, your gross paycheck (before taxes) will be $2,000. What is the annual salary of a mineralogist? The average annual salary for a mineralogist working in the US is  about $110,000. Salaries can range depending on experience, skill,  and hiring company, from $48,000--whic … h is a typical entry level  salary--to $135,000.
While the annual salary represents a floor for an employee's wages, gross pay can exceed that level. For instance, if an employee is paid an annual salary of $23,000 per year, but he is eligible for, and works, $5,000 worth of overtime, his gross pay will be $28,000 -- more than his salary. But while every employee who is paid earns gross pay, not every employee earns a salary