Tell Him was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals in 1998. Dion performed this song as a virtual duet with Barbra Streisand during the Let's Talk About Love Tour. However, Dion and Streisand never performed the song together live since recording it. Tell Him was later included on both artists' compilations: Dion's The Collector's Series, Volume One and Streisand's The Essential Barbra Streisand and Duets. In 2008, it became also a part of Dion's greatest hits My Love: Essential Collection
Tweet. HymnSite.com HomePlay a random hymn. Only Trust Him The United Methodist Hymnal Number 337 Text: John H. Stockton Music: John H. Stockton Tune: STOCKTON, Meter: CM with Refrain 1. Come, every soul by sin oppressed, there's mercy with the Lord; and he will surely give you rest, by trusting in his Word. 
With The Band he started to write one song, `Strawberry Wine,’ the whole time and couldn’t finish it, and I helped him finish it. And there were some other songs that I wrote and he was there when I was writing them, and just because he was being supportive, I gave him credit on a couple of songs. We’ll never know if Robertson wrote those songs by himself or just appropriated them from his band mates. The Band weren’t managed as well as John Lennon and Paul McCartney who split their songwriting credits no matter who wrote the song.
To Know Him Is to Love Him  is a song written by Phil Spector, inspired by words on his father's tombstone, To Know Him Was To Love Him.. It was first recorded by the only vocal group of which he was a member, the Teddy Bears. Their recording went to number one on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart in 1958. The Beatles ' version, To Know Her Is to Love Her, was not officially released until 1994, on their Live at the BBC compilation album. John Lennon recorded his own version of the song in 1973 (To Know Her Is to Love Her), but it would not see release until the 1986 compilation Menlove Ave. In 2007, Amy Winehouse recorded the song acoustically for a B-side of . You Know I'm No Good 
Tell Him  is a duet between Barbra Streisand and Celine Dion. It was released on November 3, 1997 as the first single from Dion's Let's Talk About Love and Streisand's Higher Ground albums. However, Dion and Streisand never performed the song together live since recording it. Tell Him was later included on both artists' compilations: Dion's The Collector's Series, Volume One and Streisand's The Essential Barbra Streisand and Duets.
The words and music were both written by John H. Stockton, who was born April 19, 1813, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and passed away March 25, 1877. He accepted Christ as his Savior when he was nineteen years old at a Methodist camp meeting. 
Guralnick says A Change Is Gonna Come was written within a month or two after that. It was less work than any song he'd ever written, Guralnick says. It almost scared him that the song — it was almost as if the song were intended for somebody else. 
Thou shalt fear Jehovah thy God; and him shalt thou serve, and shalt swear by his name. Douay-Rheims Bible. Take heed diligently lest thou forget the Lord, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God, and shalt serve him only, and thou shalt swear by his name. Darby Bible Translation. Thou shalt fear Jehovah thy God, and serve him, and shalt swear by his name. 
The music you hear in Wren's World is only for the purpose of your enjoyment and entertainment. WrensWorld.com does not offer any CD's or sheet music for sale, nor are we affiliated with any commercial company. Whenever possible, we do provide a link to the music owner. Without Him I could do nothing Without Him I'd surely fail Without Him I would be drifting Like a ship without a sail. Without Him I would be dying Without Him I'd be inslaved Without Him life would be worthless But with Jesus, thank God I'm saved.