Body fossils are any fossil that comes from the animal itself. Examples of body fossils are fossilized skin, bone, teeth, claws, eggs, embryos etc. Trace fossils are any fossil connected to ancient life but not the animal itself. Examples include footprints, teethmarks, nests, gizzard stones, coprolites, burrows etc. In a lot of ways trace fossils are as important as body fossils. The give us insight into how the animal lived, how fast it walked, what ate what etc.
The study of fossils is the science of paleontology. Fossils can be microscopic in size or the size of a dinosaur. Fossils normally preserve animals and plants. The difference between body fossils, trace fossils and chemofossils is body fossils are the fossils of a body. Chemofossils are chemical processes in fossilized organisms and trace fossils are footprints. Lagerstatten are fossils with good preservation that sometimes preserved soft tissues. 
A Fossil is the remains (or an impression) of a plant or animal that existed in a past geological age A trace fossil is the burrows, trails, etc, of an animal.   A … trace fossil is where something left a mark on something else, and then became fossilized. A body fossil is a fossil of a once living thing. Trace fossils are any fossil connected to ancient life but not the animal itself. Examples include footprints, teethmarks, nests, gizzard stones, coprolites, burrows etc. In a lot of ways trace fossils are as important as body fossils. The give us insight into how the animal lived, how fast it walked, what ate what etc.
Body Fossils and Trace Fossils. Hide summary. Palaeobiology-we explain the difference between body fossils and trace fossils, and... Palaeobiology-we explain the difference between body fossils and trace fossils, and what we can learn from them. Print. Working out behaviour from fossils. Typical fossils, such as shells and bones, are called 'body' fossils because they represent the actual remains of the animal. But there is another type of fossil called 'trace' fossils.
1.2.2 Other types of fossils. 1  1. Trace fossils. 2  Unlike body fossils, where a portion of the actual organism or its skeleton is preserved, trace fossils are the remains of an organism's activity or behavior. 3  Examples include tracks, trails, burrows, and borings. 4  Trace fossils will be covered in detail in a later lab. 5  2. 
A Fossil is the remains (or an impression) of a plant or animal that existed in a past geological age A trace fossil is the burrows, trails, etc, of an animal.   A … trace fossil is where something left a mark on something else, and then became fossilized. A body fossil is a fossil of a once living thing. This is proof of a dead animal. on the other hand a trace fossil is something like a foo … tprint and does not indicate one way or the other, whether the bearer is or was dead or alive. the Body fossil is solid proof of the remains, the trace does not indicate one way or the other.
There are two main types of fossils: body fossils and trace fossils. Body fossils can include bones, calcified bones, etc. Whereas, trace fossils are traces and remains that the creatures have left behind. This can include marks, animal tracks or feces. Bone. Description. A fossil is the preserved remains or traces of animals, plants, and other organisms from the remote past. A bone is a rigid organ that forms part of the vertebral skeleton. Types. B
Confidence votes 68.0K. Rockhound. A body fossil would be in the form, or part of, the organism that has fossilized. A trace fossil indicates evidences other than a fossilized body part, that indicates the existence of an organism, such as burrows, trails, eggs, nests, and fecal matter. This is proof of a dead animal. on the other hand a trace fossil is something like a foo … tprint and does not indicate one way or the other, whether the bearer is or was dead or alive. the Body fossil is solid proof of the remains, the trace does not indicate one way or the other.