MPPT solar charge controller is necessary for any solar power systems need to extract maximum power from PV module; it forces PV module to operate at voltage close to maximum power point to draw maximum available power. In any applications which PV module is energy source, MPPT solar charge controller is used to correct for detecting the variations in the current-voltage characteristics of solar cell and shown by I-V curve.
A charge controller, or charge regulator is basically a voltage and/or current regulator to keep batteries from overcharging. It regulates the voltage and current coming from the solar panels going to the battery. Not always, but usually. Generally, there is no need for a charge controller with the small maintenance, or trickle charge panels, such as the 1 to 5 watt panels. A rough rule is that if the panel puts out about 2 watts or less for each 50 battery amp-hours, then you don't need one.
With a MPPT solar charge controller, users can wire PV module for 24 or 48 V (depending on charge controller and PV modules) and bring power into 12 or 24 V battery system. This means it reduces the wire size needed while retaining full output of PV module. In any applications which PV module is energy source, MPPT solar charge controller is used to correct for detecting the variations in the current-voltage characteristics of solar cell and shown by I-V curve.
(Remember, it is Amps into the battery that counts). Most modern MPPT's are around 93-97% efficient in the conversion. You typically get a 20 to 45% power gain in winter and 10-15% in summer. Actual gain can vary widely depending weather, temperature, battery state of charge, and other factors. This is just the opposite of the seasonal variation for MPPT controllers. Since panel temperatures are much lower in winter, they put out more power. And winter is usually when you need the most power from your solar panels due to shorter days. Maximum Power Point Tracking is electronic tracking-usually digital. The charge controller looks at the output of the panels, and compares it to the battery voltage
The basics of Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) Solar Charge Controller is electronic tracking, and has nothing to do with moving the panels with a mechanical solar tracker. In-stead, the controller looks at the output of the panels, and compares it to the battery volt-age. So now we have the MPPT ˘intelligent ˇ charge controllers to the rescue! MPPT or Maximum Power point Tracking is an algorithm that's included in charge controllers used for extracting maximum available power from PV solar module under certain conditions.
Assume your battery is low, at 12 volts. A MPPT Solar Controller takes that 17.6 volts at 7.4 amps and converts it down, so that what the battery gets is now 10.8 amps at 12 volts. Now you still have almost 130 watts, and everyone is happy.
What happens when you use a standard controller. Standard (that is, all but the MPPT types), will often work with high voltage panels if the maximum input voltage of the charge controller is not exceeded. However, you will lose a lot of power-from 20 to 60% of what your panel is rated at. Not always, but usually. Generally, there is no need for a charge controller with the small maintenance, or trickle charge panels, such as the 1 to 5 watt panels. A rough rule is that if the panel puts out about 2 watts or less for each 50 battery amp-hours, then you don't need one.
MPPT solar charge controller allows users to use PV module with a higher voltage output than the operating voltage of battery system. For example, if PV module has to be placed far away from charge controller and battery, its wire size must be very large to reduce voltage drop. So now we have the MPPT ˘intelligent ˇ charge controllers to the rescue! MPPT or Maximum Power point Tracking is an algorithm that's included in charge controllers used for extracting maximum available power from PV solar module under certain conditions.
MPPT solar charge controller. A MPPT solar charge controller is the charge controller embedded with MPPT algorithm to maximize the amount of current going into the battery from PV module. In any applications which PV module is energy source, MPPT solar charge controller is used to correct for detecting the variations in the current-voltage characteristics of solar cell and shown by I-V curve.