1 Warm peanut oil in a wok, then stir in the laksa paste. 2  Once the paste has diffused, add coconut milk and simmer for 10 minutes or until thick. 3  Mix in the rice noodles and prawns, shredded fish, or tofu. 1 Boil your choice of rice noodles until half done, rinse with cold water, and set aside. 2  Warm peanut oil in a wok, then stir in the laksa paste. 3
1 Heat enough oil in a saucepan to cover laksa paste. 2  Stir-fry laksa paste, basil leaves, and knotted lemongrass till fragrant then add chicken/seafood/tofu. 3  Add stock and slowly bring to boil over low heat. 4  Add coconut milk, stir, and simmer. 5  Boil noodles and drain. 1 If possible, avoid adding water to the laksa paste. 2  Heat enough oil in a saucepan to cover laksa paste. 3  Stir-fry laksa paste, basil leaves, and knotted lemongrass till fragrant then add chicken/seafood/tofu. 4  Add stock and slowly bring to boil over low heat. 5  Add coconut milk, stir, and simmer.
Laksa paste is available in international grocery stores as well as shops all around Southeast Asia. 1  Boil your choice of rice noodles until half done, rinse with cold water, and set aside. 2  Warm peanut oil in a wok, then stir in the laksa paste. 1 Boil your choice of rice noodles until half done, rinse with cold water, and set aside. 2  Warm peanut oil in a wok, then stir in the laksa paste. 3  Once the paste has diffused, add coconut milk and simmer for 10 minutes or until thick.
Click here for Recipe. Laksa is a spice-laden noodle dish that is popular in Malaysia and Singapore; it’s a noodle dish that is quickly gaining popularity outside of Southeast Asia because of the scrumptious taste. 
In a large pot, saute the Laksa paste in a little oil for 2-3 minutes until fragrant. Then add the stock, chicken, shrimp, coconut milk…..and the rest of the ingredients according to the recipe. Other traditional things to toss into the pot are fried puffy tofu, and fish balls. I added both. Make the laksa paste (or use store bought). In a large heavy bottom soup pot or dutch oven, heat 1 Tablespoon oil over medium high heat. Add all the Laksa Paste, and saute, stirring constantly until it becomes very fragrant, about 2-3 minutes. (Turn stove fan on).
Laksa is a popular spicy noodle soup in the Peranakan cuisine, which is a combination of Chinese and Malay cuisine. Laksa consists of rice noodles or rice vermicelli with chicken, prawn or fish, served in spicy soup; either based on rich and spicy curry coconut milk, or based on sour asam (tamarind or gelugur). It can be found in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Southern Thailand. The type of laksa is based upon the soup-base employed in its recipe; either rich and savoury coconut milk, fresh and sour asam (tamarind, gelugur or kokum), or the combination of the two.
Directions. 1  Boil chicken and/or seafood to make stock. 2  Make laksa paste. 3  Heat enough oil in a saucepan to cover laksa paste. 4  Add stock and slowly bring to boil over low heat. 5  Add coconut milk, stir, and simmer. 6  Boil noodles and drain. 7  Serve immediately with noodles and garnish. 1 If possible, avoid adding water to the laksa paste. 2  Heat enough oil in a saucepan to cover laksa paste. 3  Stir-fry laksa paste, basil leaves, and knotted lemongrass till fragrant then add chicken/seafood/tofu. 4  Add stock and slowly bring to boil over low heat. 5  Add coconut milk, stir, and simmer.
Heat oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add laksa paste and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes or until fragrant. Add stock and sugar. Stir to combine, then bring to a simmer. Add chicken, return to a simmer and cook for 4 minutes. Standing time 20 minutes. To make laksa paste, place chillies and shrimp in two separate bowls and cover both with enough boiling water to cover. Leave for 20 minutes or until softened. Drain well, then process with remaining ingredients in a food processor to a smooth paste.