A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). It is commonly used to treat depression, social anxiety disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), panic disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Zoloft is the brand name of sertraline, an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorders. Zoloft is in a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). They work by controlling levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain.
Sertraline (trade names Zoloft and others) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class. It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991. Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety disorder, in both adults and children. Side effects such as nausea are common. Sertraline is effective in alleviating the symptoms of PMDD, a severe form of premenstrual syndrome. Significant improvement was observed in 50–60% of cases treated with sertraline vs. 20–30% of cases on placebo.
Sertraline is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Sertraline affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression, panic, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Less serious side effects may include: 1  drowsiness, dizziness, tired feeling; 2  mild nausea, stomach pain, upset stomach, constipation; 3  dry mouth; 4  changes in appetite or weight; 5  sleep problems (insomnia); or. 6  decreased sex drive, impotence, or difficulty having an orgasm.
Sertraline is used to treat depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and social anxiety disorder (SAD). Sertraline belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). 
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, and social anxiety disorder. Zoloft is the brand name of sertraline, an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorders. Zoloft is in a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). They work by controlling levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain.
Sertraline is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Sertraline affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression, panic, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Less serious side effects may include: 1  drowsiness, dizziness, tired feeling; 2  mild nausea, stomach pain, upset stomach, constipation; 3  dry mouth; 4  changes in appetite or weight; 5  sleep problems (insomnia); or.
Sertraline is used for a number of conditions including: major depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), panic disorder and social phobia (social anxiety disorder). Side effects such as nausea are common. Sertraline is effective in alleviating the symptoms of PMDD, a severe form of premenstrual syndrome. Significant improvement was observed in 50–60% of cases treated with sertraline vs. 20–30% of cases on placebo.
Descriptions. Sertraline is used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and social anxiety disorder (SAD). Sertraline belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). 
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is in a class of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Zoloft is used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic attacks, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and social anxiety disorder. Zoloft is the brand name of sertraline, an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorders. Zoloft is in a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). They work by controlling levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain.