Some employees are going to be better than others. I'd suggest going into ULTA before you get your makeup done and kinda scoping out the artists. Find someone who's makeup you like and see if they can do yours. It takes about 30 minutes for them to do your whole face. As far as price, they don't charge you upfront, but buying products is common courtesy. You should at least buy 2-3 products as a thank you to them for doing you a service. Have fun at prom! This Site Might Help You. RE: can you get your makeup done at ULTA? if so, does it turn out ok? how much would it be? how long do you think it would take for them to do something for prom? thank you :).
I've had my hair & makeup done for a sorority formal at Ulta and I made an appointment before I went. I think with something like prom you really should make one. I'm not sure how much exactly it cost, I think it was around $80 total for both. I didnt have to buy any products afterwards either. My advice is to book an appt to get your makeup done at a salon that charges a fee, hire a freelancer or at least have the intention of a 2 product purchase after the person spends time doing your makeup.
I went to the Ulta Salon in Katy, Texas for a trim and style. The girl cut my hair so short that I only have 1/4 inch length on the sides and the top is about 2 inches long. This is not the hairstyle that I selected. Neither the salon manager or the store manager called me back. 3rd of Nov, 2008 by MISUNDERSTOOD. -1 Votes. You people expect to go to ulta and get your makeup done for free and think you dont have to buy anything after that you are the one who is crazy and obviously ulta doesn't need your money if thats the case.
BOOK AN APPOINTMENT. Personal consultation followed by a customized shampoo and intense Redken customized deep conditioning treatment for whatever your hair needs – whether it’s moisture, color protection, strength, softness, control or a combination. Your experience is finished with a blowout. Add a few highlight around your face to accentuate the shape of your haircut or add a pop of color and dimension with a classic foil application or Balayage. A great service if you’d like to try highlights for the first time.
Average ULTA hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.75 per hour for Customer Service Representative to $22.00 per hour for Operations Manager. The average ULTA salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Stylist to $85,000 per year for Inventory Manager. Salary information comes from 760 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
I was considering getting my makeup done at Ulta for my e-pics. I have a makeup artist booked for the wedding, but I didnt want to spend $65 on an application from her for the e-pics when Ulta is only $30. I may just try a local salon that does makeup application that way I will know a professional is doing it and it will be faster then the in home trial from my MUA. Thank you all ladies, you saved me from what could be a hot mess at Ulta.
First of all, there are salons that charge a fee for event makeup, there are even freelance artists who charge for their services for weddings and events. When you get your hair done for an event you pay for the service. My advice is to book an appt to get your makeup done at a salon that charges a fee, hire a freelancer or at least have the intention of a 2 product purchase after the person spends time doing your makeup.