An increased credit limit can be a temptation to overspend. A high credit score is a valuable asset since it can lower your interest rate on important purchases like a home or a car. To increase your credit score, you'll have to be responsible with your credit. An increased credit limit will affect your FICO score, which is the industry-standard credit score created by the Fair Isaac Corporation. New Accounts. If your credit limit increased because you opened a new account, your score may take a dip. Even the act of applying for an account, known as a credit inquiry, appears on your credit report and can help lower your score.
Getting a credit limit increase will not hurt your score. In fact, it may actually raise it because it will lower your debt-to-credit ratio. Your debt ratio is factored by weighing the amount of money you have already borrowed, against the amount of money it is possible for you to borrow. 
Reduce the balance of your credit cards to 30% and below of your credit limit. If you have a credit card with a $5,000 limit, your balance reported to the credit bureau should be $1500 and under in order to have an excellent credit score. An increase in credit limit may not hurt your FICO score at all, in fact it might even help it. If you can demonstrate that you have successfully gotten two or three unsecur … ed credit cards, and have been able to keep them a few years that is considered good credit.
Use Less Credit. While you can lower your credit utilization by increasing your credit limit, you can also attack the other side of the issue. If you have 40 percent utilization due to a $1,000 balance and a $2,500 limit, spending or owing less on your credit card will have the same impact as raising your credit limit. Generally, getting denied for a credit increase won’t directly affect your credit report or your credit score. However, while the denial itself doesn’t make a difference, the process leading up to it can. Also, by not getting a credit increase, you’re missing out on the benefits of having additional credit.
As a general rule, your credit score will be higher if you keep your credit usage at 30% of your total available credit or less. An increase in your credit limit will lower your debt to credit ratio, provided you do not increase your debt proportionally. Inquiries. Inquiries is the other potential component of your credit score that could be affected by an increased credit line. If you request a credit line increase, you should ask the lender whether it will result in your credit report being pulled. If it does, this will show up as an inquiry on your report and generally remains on your credit report for two years. Too many inquiries can lower your credit score
Of the many methods you can use to improve your credit score, increasing your credit limits is one you can employ today. You can usually ask for a credit limit increase after the first six months of opening a credit card. However, plenty of people don’t act to boost their spending limits. See how you can increase your credit limits and how each method can affect your credit score: 1
1 Receiving a limit increase can help lower your credit utilization rate. 2  If you have $1000 of debt and your limit is only $2000 you are at 50 percent of your utilization. 3  But if you can add another $2000 to your limit you’ll be at 25 percent. 1 Don’t let a higher limit lead to higher debt. 2  Just because you were given an increased credit limit shouldn’t mean you have an excuse to spend more and increase your debt. 3  Closing too many accounts at once can negatively affect your score. 4  Consumers should always keep their credit utilization to less than 30 percent.
The amount you owe on your credit cards plays a role in determining your FICO score. Along with credit utilization, the amount of debt you carry makes up 30 percent of your total score. With an increased credit limit, you may end up incurring more debt, raising the amount that you owe. New Accounts. If your credit limit increased because you opened a new account, your score may take a dip. Even the act of applying for an account, known as a credit inquiry, appears on your credit report and can help lower your score.