1 The PPD test is used to determine if someone has developed an immune response to the bacterium that causes tuberculosis (TB). 2  The standard recommended tuberculin test is the Mantoux test, which is administered by injecting a 0.1 mL volume containing 5 TU (tuberculin units) PPD into the top layers of skin of the forearm. 1 The tuberculosis skin test is also known as the tuberculin test or PPD test. 2 
The Mantoux test or Mendel-Mantoux test (also known as the Mantoux screening test, tuberculin sensitivity test, Pirquet test, or PPD test for purified protein derivative) is a screening tool for tuberculosis (TB) . 
tuberculin reaction. the prototype delayed or type IV hypersensitivity; typified by swelling and redness at the site of inoculation of tuberculin. tuberculin tests. a number of tests for tuberculosis, based on the use of tuberculin as a test agent, are used in animals. A short thermal test using a large volume of tuberculin injected subcutaneously is used in special circumstances. tuberculin test any of a large number of skin tests for tuberculosis using a variety of different types of tuberculin and methods of application.
A person with TB disease may be infectious and spread TB bacteria to others. TB skin test – a test that is often used to find out if you are infected with TB bacteria. A liquid called tuberculin is injected under the skin on the lower part of your arm. If you have a negative TB skin test reaction, you probably do not have TB infection. Positive – usually refers to a test result. If you have a positive TB skin test reaction, you probably have TB infection. Pulmonary TB – TB disease that occurs in the lungs, usually producing a cough that lasts 3 weeks or longer.
Guide. A tuberculin skin test (also called a Mantoux tuberculin test) is done to see if you have ever been exposed to tuberculosis (TB). The test is done by putting a small amount of TB protein (antigens) under the top layer of skin on your inner forearm. The TB antigens used in a tuberculin skin test are called purified protein derivative (PPD). A measured amount of PPD in a shot is put under the top layer of skin on your forearm. This is a good test for finding a TB infection.
Noun. 1. tuberculin skin test-a skin test to determine past or present infection with the tuberculosis bacterium; based on hypersensitivity of the skin to tuberculin. tuberculin test. skin test-any test to determine immunity or sensitivity to a disease by introducing small amounts on or into the skin
Mycobacterium tuberculosis – bacteria that cause latent TB infection and TB disease. Negative – usually refers to a test result. If you have a negative TB skin test reaction, you probably do not have TB infection. Positive – usually refers to a test result. If you have a positive TB skin test reaction, you probably have TB infection. Pulmonary TB – TB disease that occurs in the lungs, usually producing a cough that lasts 3 weeks or longer.
Tuberculosis, commonly known as TB, is a contagious and an often severe airborne disease caused by a bacterial infection. TB typically affects the lungs, but it also may affect any other organ of the body. It is usually treated with a regimen of drugs taken for 6 months to 2 years, depending on the type of infection. 
tine test-a tuberculin test in which a disk with several tines bearing tuberculin antigen is used to puncture the skin; development of a hard red area indicates past or present exposure to tubercle bacilli and the need for further testing. tuberculin skin test-a skin test to determine past or present infection with the tuberculosis bacterium; based on hypersensitivity of the skin to tuberculin. tuberculin test. skin test-any test to determine immunity or sensitivity to a disease by introducing small amounts on or into the skin