Best Answer: Between the two main ones: Sparta and Athens. Athens: Primarily an artisan city. They were more cultured and tended to be (in modern opinion) very progressive. They were essentially very modern in their ways of thinking. Tended toward philosophy etc. Sparta: A completely military state. 
We hear a lot about Athens and Sparta, but what were some of the other ancient Greek city-states? There was Corinth, which was the richest commercial city of ancient Greece. Thebes is the birthplace of Hercules (whom the Greeks called Herakles), the legendary hero. The differences between Athens and Sparta eventually led to war between the two city-states. Known as the Peloponnesian War (431-404 B.C.E.), both Sparta and Athens gathered allies and fought on and off for decades because no single city-state was strong enough to conquer the others.
Groups of villages that banded together were called city-states. There were hundreds of city-states in ancient Greece, some really small ones and some really big ones with large populations. Although each city-state had its own form of government and its own army, and even sometimes its own navy, and each city-state certainly its own way of doing things, the city-states of ancient Greece had many things in common.
Sparta. There were two city-states that were indicative of Greek city-states as a whole: Sparta and Athens. At Sparta, located on the Peloponnesus, five Dorian villages combined to form the Spartan state. In the 8th century, this state conquered all the other peoples of Laconia, one of the most fertile plains in Greece. For example, some poleis had different names for the months of the year. Although there were similarities and differences between the city-states, they all made the effort to preserve their own unique identity. What we call the ancient Greek world was really hundreds of independent city-states or poleis. No one polis was a replica of another
Sparta There were two city-states that were indicative of Greek city-states as a whole: Sparta and Athens. At Sparta, located on the Peloponnesus, five Dorian villages combined to form the Spartan state. In the 8th century, this state conquered all the other peoples of Laconia, one of the most fertile plains in Greece. For example, some poleis had different names for the months of the year. Although there were similarities and differences between the city-states, they all made the effort to preserve their own unique identity. What we call the ancient Greek world was really hundreds of independent city-states or poleis. No one polis was a replica of another
But they were loyal to their city-state. If you asked someone in ancient Greece where they were from, they would not say they were from Greece, because Greece at that time was not a country. It was a collection of city-states, each with its own personality and way of doing things. They would say they were from Athens, or Sparta, or Corinth, or Argos. Although each city-state had its own form of government and its own army, and even sometimes its own navy, and each city-state certainly its own way of doing things, the city-states of ancient Greece had many things in common.
There were many similarities between Greek city states. Sparta was, however, organized much different than the other important Greek city states. Sparta as a society is roundly criticized by most historical studies. This is in part because Greek history largely comes to us from the Athenians. Left unsaid is the fact that Athens like other Greek states had economies that were supported by large slave populations. Sparta and Athens do, however, represent two diametrically opposed concepts of the Greek city state. Sparta like many of the Greek city states appeared in the 9th century BC at the end of the Greek Dark Ages. Sparta was at first similar to other Greek city states, governed by a monarchy and small aristocracy.
Then during the Peloponnesian war, which was Sparta v.s the powerful Athens (in the 400's B.C) at the end, we ended with a new powerful group called Sparta. The Spartanians were so releaved and excited and Athenians so depressed. That is a big difference in Greek City-States government. Some similarities is that they both had citizens that had to be males, but a big difference between that is to be a citizen in Athenia, you had to be a male, but you had to have family in that city-state for 3 generations. 
Cities. Ancient Greece was made up of city-states. City-states were areas of land made up of many small cities and the countryland surrounding them. City-states often joined together to form countries. The two largest city-states in Greece were Athens and Sparta.