Keep a record of this. A dog’s normal temperature is between 101-102.5F degrees. Her temperature may rise and fall during this time, but once her temperature falls below 99 degrees, she should go into labor in the next 24 hours. Her water breaks and puppies are delivered usually after 10-30 minutes of pushing. All puppies are born during this stage. The third stage of labor is after all pups have been delivered and is when a dog still has small contractions to expell fluids and/or placentas from the uterus.
The first stage of labor typically begins 24 hours after the dog’s rectal temperature drops from around 101 degrees F to 98 or 99 degrees F. The mother dog will appear anxious and restless and may look for a place to hide, retreating behind furniture or into a closet. 
During the first stage of labor the cervix begins to dilate and uterine contractions begin. These contractions are painful and perplexing to the dog. She will appear quite uncomfortable and restless-pacing, shivering and panting. She probably will not eat and she may even vomit. Just Before Labor Begins: Pregnancy in dogs last approximately 63 days (56-69 days). Toy breeds may deliver a week earlier while large breeds often deliver later. Two weeks before your dog’s due date, begin to take its temperature at noon.
Here are some of the things that should happen as your dog begins to deliver her puppies. Just Before Labor Begins: Pregnancy in dogs last approximately 63 days (56-69 days). Toy breeds may deliver a week earlier while large breeds often deliver later. Two weeks before your dog’s due date, begin to take its temperature at noon.
Time Frame. The first sign of labor can last from 6 to 12 hours, although contractions have not started so the dog may not pant. Panting starts when the contractions begin. The first puppy should appear in 30 minutes. If not, call a vet. Dogs can take up to two hours in between whelping puppies in the same litter. If a dog actively goes into labor with panting and then is too exhausted to continue, she may have uterine inertia and needs veterinary assistance immediately. (See Reference 4).
My dog should be having the puppies soon, and she just started breathing and panting hard, and acting funny, trying to hide, and when she is not hiding she is by my side.. this is her first litter..tell me what i need to know and do..thanks. 1 following. 7 answers 7. 
During the first stage the cervix dilates and contractions begin. Your female will be uncomfortable, restless, pace and pant. This lasts 6-18 hours. During the second part of labor, your female's contractions begin in ernest. Her water breaks and puppies are delivered usually after 10-30 minutes of pushing. All puppies are born during this stage. The third stage of labor is after all pups have been delivered and is when a dog still has small contractions to expell fluids and/or placentas from the uterus.
Panting or breathing heavily and rapidly in a pregnant dog is a sign that labor contractions have begun. Dogs normally pant when in pain. (See Reference 2) Pregnant dogs in labor will also lick their vulvas and try to find a dark, quiet spot to whelp (give birth.) (See Reference 1). Dogs can take up to two hours in between whelping puppies in the same litter. If a dog actively goes into labor with panting and then is too exhausted to continue, she may have uterine inertia and needs veterinary assistance immediately. (See Reference 4).
There are three stages of labor in dogs. The first stage is when the cervix is dialating and some contractions will start. You may see some shivering, panting, restlessness, unwillingness to eat and she may seek a private area. This stage usually lasts 6-12 hours, if you see these signs encourage her to go to the whelping area you have provided for her.