Carbohydrate. Definition. noun, plural: carbohydrates. Any of the group of organic compounds consisting of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, usually in the ratio of 1:2:1, hence the general formula: C n (H 2 O) n. Examples include sugar, starch, cellulose and gums. Supplement
noun. Bread is a source of carbohydrates. Bread is a source of carbohydrates. The definition of a carbohydrate is an organic compound that occurs in living tissues or food and that can be broken down into energy by people or animals. carbohydrate. noun. Any of a group of organic compounds that includes sugars, starches, celluloses, and gums and serves as a major energy source in the diet of animals. These compounds are produced by photosynthetic plants and contain only carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, usually in the ratio 1:2:1.
Carbohydrates: Mainly sugars and starches, together constituting one of the three principal types of nutrients used as energy sources (calories) by the body. Carbohydrates can also be defined chemically as neutral compounds of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Carbohydrates come in simple forms such as sugars and in complex forms such as starches and fiber. The body breaks down most sugars and starches into glucose, a simple sugar that the body can use to feed its cells. Complex carbohydrates are derived from plants.
Your diet is made up of three macronutrients: carbohydrates, protein and fat. Carbohydrates are present in varying amounts in most of the foods you eat including fruits, vegetables, grains, beans, legumes, milk and milk products, and foods containing added sugar such as candy, soda and other sweets. Carbohydrates are present in food in the form of starch, sugar and fiber. A carbohydrate is a molecule containing carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, and can be either simple or complex. Both simple and complex carbohydrates can be healthy food options. Simple carbohydrates are monosaccharides and disaccharides.
In food science and in many informal contexts, the term carbohydrate often means any food that is particularly rich in the complex carbohydrate starch (such as cereals, bread and pasta) or simple carbohydrates, such as sugar (found in candy, jams, and desserts). Formerly the name carbohydrate was used in chemistry for any compound with the formula C m (H 2 O) n. Following this definition, some chemists considered formaldehyde (CH 2 O) to be the simplest carbohydrate, while others claimed that title for glycolaldehyde.
Definition of CARBOHYDRATE for Kids. : a substance (as a starch or sugar) that is rich in energy and is made up of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. Tweet. : any one of various substances found in certain foods (such as bread, rice, and potatoes) that provide your body with heat and energy and are made
Full Definition of CARBOHYDRATE. : any of various neutral compounds of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen (as sugars, starches, and celluloses) most of which are formed by green plants and which constitute a major class of animal foods. See carbohydrate defined for English-language learners. See carbohydrate defined for kids. Tweet. : any one of various substances found in certain foods (such as bread, rice, and potatoes) that provide your body with heat and energy and are made of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen.
carbohydrate. (any of a group of) substances containing carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, especially the sugars and starches found in food. Potatoes are full of carbohydrate.n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) any of a large group of organic compounds, including sugars, such as sucrose, and polysaccharides, such as cellulose, glycogen, and starch, that contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, with the general formula C m (H2O) n: an important source of food and energy for animals. Informal term: carb.