Hepatitis (plural: hepatitides) is a medical condition defined by the inflammation of the liver and characterized by the presence of inflammatory cells in the tissue of the organ. 
Hepatitis A (formerly known as infectious hepatitis) is an acute infectious disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV). Many cases have few or no symptoms, especially in the young. The time between infection and symptoms, in those who develop them, is between two and six weeks. 
Hepatitis A is a virus, or infection, that causes liver disease and inflammation of the liver. Viruses can cause sickness. For example, the flu is caused by a virus. People can pass viruses to each other. Inflammation is swelling that occurs when tissues of the body become injured or infected. 1 Hepatitis A is an inflammatory disease of the liver caused by a virus. 2  The liver stores nutrients and vitamins, helps digest foods, helps prevent infections, and helps remove harmful substances from blood. 3  Hepatitis A viruses cause the disease termed hepatitis A.
Hepatitis A is a highly contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus is one of several types of hepatitis viruses that cause inflammation and affect your liver's ability to function. 
1 Hepatitis A is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe illness. 2  The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person. 3  Almost everyone recovers fully from hepatitis A, but very small proportions die from fulminant hepatitis. 
Hepatitis A is a serious liver disease caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV). HAV is found in the stool of people with hepatitis A. It is usually spread by close personal contact and sometimes by eating food or drinking water containing HAV. A person who has hepatitis A can easily pass the disease to others within the same household. Hepatitis A can cause:  1 flu-like illness.
Hepatitis A is a virus that can infect the liver. In most cases, the infection goes away on its own and doesn't lead to long-term liver problems. In rare cases, it can be more serious. Other viruses (hepatitis B and hepatitis C) also can cause hepatitis. Hepatitis A is the most common type. The hepatitis A virus is found in the stool of an infected person. It is spread when a person eats food or drinks water that has come in contact with infected stool.
Hepatitis Overview. Viral hepatitis, including hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C, are distinct diseases that affect the liver and have different hepatitis symptoms and treatments. Other causes of hepatitis include recreational drugs and prescription medications. Hepatitis type is determined by laboratory tests. 