I was recently tossing around some ideas to make some quick money. I decided to tap the wisdom of the crowds so I asked some of the PF bloggers around to share what they would do if they had to find a way to come up with $200 in two weeks or less. When I’ve had to make money fast in the past I’ve sold old electronics, video games, or other things I don’t need on Ebay. Peter @ Bible Money Matters. If we needed $200 and only had 2 weeks to do it, we would definitely have a garage sale.
It can take a while to build up your reputation but some users of the site have said that they earn £40 a month. This may not sound like much, but if it’s something you enjoy then it shouldn’t be hard work and is another thing for your CV. Money you earn will be in $US but anyone can sign up and review. On this page you’ll find all the best ways to make money in your spare time whilst at university based on our own experience. We’ll keep adding new ways to this page so go ahead and bookmark it. And please do share your own ideas in the comments!
Look, we're not here to judge. People need quick cash for all sorts of legitimate reasons. Maybe your little sister's birthday is tomorrow and she's been begging for a $110 American Girl doll. Maybe you owe $1,000 to a guy named Viper. Or, you really need to make this month's rent
In the United States, you can make US$20-30 per visit and give plasma twice a week, but you must weigh at least 110 pounds, be between the ages of 18 and 59, and be in good health. Many college students do this to make extra cash. 1 Use your cell phone for contact; that way you can get the calls no matter where you are trying to raise money! 2  If you're taking on a part-time position, get one that gives tips so that you get immediate cash from the first day. 3  It can be a long wait until that first pay otherwise.
I've been using it for a few days now and have made about 3 bucks thus far, so it isn't huge, but at the same time, I didn't really have to do any work to earn the money. If you are interested in seeing how it works, here is a quick video review that you can watch for more info. 5. Sell your service at Fiverr. These days more and more people are finding that they aren't limited to a single source of income. With all the unique money-making opportunities available, many people are finding that they can earn a few extra hundred dollars a month by thinking a little outside the box.
You can earn quick money by registering to InboxDollars. You’ll get a free $5 bonus when you sign up! You may have to wait a bit longer to get to $100, but it’s still easy money by doing things you do online anyway, like listening to music (yes seriously), watching ads and a variety of other things. Quick Money From SwagBucks – SwagBucks is a reward website where you can earn money by answering survey, playing games,searching internet, reading mails, etc The very things that you do anyway. To top it up, when you join SwagBucks, you’ll get $5 bonus. It is like getting paid to do things you’d
How much will you get paid? It varies, but you can expect to make between $15 and $40, depending on how much you weigh. The heavier you are, the more you make. Every plasma center is different, and there are more than 500 for-profit plasma centers throughout the country. If you have old computer equipment, you could also recycle that for money – not much, though. It typically works out to a few cents per pound, but it often depends on the age of the electronics. The older the equipment is, the more likely it contains precious metals, like copper, which means you'll make a little more.
How I would make $200 quick…. I would probably sell some more stuff on Ebay and look for a simple freelance job just like everyone else 😉 . If I had a lot of time to devote to it I would earn every way I could in Swagbucks. I would also probably fill out a few surveys on CashCrate. When I’ve had to make money fast in the past I’ve sold old electronics, video games, or other things I don’t need on Ebay. Peter @ Bible Money Matters. If we needed $200 and only had 2 weeks to do it, we would definitely have a garage sale.
If you're a man with a clean bill of health, you can go to a sperm bank and make a donation. The process is fairly straightforward and you will be paid upwards of $40 for each donation you make. This bank in California gives you $65 per donation. And let's face it, guys, it's not the worst way to earn some quick cash. 
How to make money quick ($200 in 2 weeks). If I had to make an extra $200, and it had to be quick I would probably end up selling some things on ebay and/or craigslist. When I’ve had to make money fast in the past I’ve sold old electronics, video games, or other things I don’t need on Ebay. Peter @ Bible Money Matters. If we needed $200 and only had 2 weeks to do it, we would definitely have a garage sale.