In this type of degree program, the coursework, teaching, research and dissertation take at least 2 1/2 years, but often longer depending on how long it takes to complete the dissertation. 
About a doctoral degree in nursing. Completing a doctoral degree in nursing (DNP) program will take anywhere from three to five years and has the ability to propel you further in your career. While it's not required for all advanced nursing jobs, a DNP can help you move into nurse leadership roles. There are four different types of nursing doctorate degrees to choose from and each one is specific to a certain path in the nursing field. 1  Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) : Emphasis on clinical practice-oriented leadership training.
The doctorate would take approximately four years post bachelor's degree to complete. The degree can run up to 60 credits in coursework particular to a specific field of study. The actual length of time depends much on how long it takes a student to prepare and defend their dissertation which typically follows the prescribed credit coursework. There are three major educational paths to registered nursing-a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN), an associate degree in nursing (ADN), and a diploma. BSN programs, offered by colleges and universities, take about 4 years to complete. In 2006, 709 nursing programs offered degrees at the bachelor's level.
Doctor of Nursing. A Doctor of Nursing (ND) program takes three to five years to complete. These programs train established nursing professionals in research skills, including data and statistics analysis. Students also study leadership roles and the history and science of the nursing field. Doctor of Nursing Science. It takes between four to six years to complete a Doctor of Nursing Science program. This program is designed to teach nurses the skills needed to conduct investigative research. Nurses also develop leadership and clinical skills.
Amount of Time Needed for a Ph.D. in Nursing. Earning a Ph.D. in Nursing can take from four to six years. The degree program requires a significant time commitment on the part of the student. Students can expect to engage in full-time study, including classes in the summer. Doctor of Nursing Science. It takes between four to six years to complete a Doctor of Nursing Science program. This program is designed to teach nurses the skills needed to conduct investigative research. Nurses also develop leadership and clinical skills.
Best Answer: Hopefully this website will help you out with what you're looking for. http://www.allnursingschools.com/nursing... I looked into finding how long it will take to get a Doctor of Philosophy in nursing and none of the programs websites gave the amount of time. I'll assume it's the same as the regular PhD nursing program and say it's about 3 to 4 years of full time work. Blessings. Source(s): 
Doctor of Nursing Philosophy. Doctor of Nursing Philosophy programs require four to six years to complete. This research-based doctorate program requires that students prepare a dissertation consisting of original research that will advance healthcare delivery systems and nursing practice. Doctor of Nursing Science. It takes between four to six years to complete a Doctor of Nursing Science program. This program is designed to teach nurses the skills needed to conduct investigative research. Nurses also develop leadership and clinical skills.
After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years). 
A master’s in nursing science usually takes four years for a full-time student. A doctoral program can take an additional three to four years. Many RNs who work full-time can only attend classes part-time, which may lengthen the time to an NP degree. 
A doctorate in nursing degree takes, on average, four to six years to complete. You will spend a great deal of time focusing on an area of research that you choose. For students who have the time and resources, there is the chance to finish your program sooner. There are four different types of nursing doctorate degrees to choose from and each one is specific to a certain path in the nursing field. 1  Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) : Emphasis on clinical practice-oriented leadership training.