Hemoglobin (/ˈhiːmɵˌɡloʊbɨn/); also spelled haemoglobin and abbreviated Hb or Hgb, is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red blood cells of all vertebrates (with the exception of the fish family Channichthyidae) as well as the tissues of some invertebrates. 
A low hemoglobin level is referred to as anemia or low red blood count. Lower than normal number of red blood cells is referred to as anemia and hemoglobin level reflects this number. There are many reasons (causes) for anemia. Some of the more common causes of anemia are: 1  loss of blood (traumatic injury, surgery, bleeding, colon cancer or stomach ulcer),
A low hemoglobin count can be associated with a disease or condition that causes your body to have too few red blood cells. This can occur if: 1  Your body produces fewer red blood cells than usual. 2  Your body destroys red blood cells faster than they can be produced. A low hemoglobin count can also be due to blood loss, which can occur because of: 1  Bleeding from a wound. 2  Bleeding in your digestive tract, such as from ulcers, cancers or hemorrhoids.
Each globulin chain contains an important central structure called the heme molecule. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells.
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. High hemoglobin with a high RBC count and high hematocrit indicates polycythemia. Some causes include: 1  Lung (pulmonary) disease —if someone is unable to breathe in and absorb sufficient oxygen, the body tries to compensate by producing more red blood cells.
This is a blood test to find out how much hemoglobin is in your blood. Hemoglobin is the main part of your red blood cells. Hemoglobin is made up of a protein called globin and a compound called heme. Heme consists of iron and a pigment called porphyrin, which gives your blood its red color. Hemoglobin serves the important role of carrying oxygen and carbon dioxide through your blood. Anemia can be caused by blood loss, decreased production of red blood cells, or increased destruction of red blood cells. Your healthcare provider can use your hemoglobin test to help find the cause of your anemia. These are other reasons you may need this test: To diagnose a disease that causes anemia.
Hemoglobin is the main part of your red blood cells. It carries oxygen through your blood. If your hemoglobin level is too low, you may not be able to supply the cells in your body with the oxygen they need to survive. Hemoglobin S (Hgb S) is an abnormal type of hemoglobin that you can inherit from your parents. Hgb S causes red blood cells to become stiff and abnormally shaped. Instead of having a normal round, disk shape, these red blood cells become sickle-shaped, or crescent-shaped. These cells don't live as long as normal red blood cells
Low hemoglobin means that a person's hemoglobin level when measured, is below the lowest limits of normal for their age and sex (see above normal range of values). For example, a 19 year old male would have low hemoglobin if the detected blood value was below 13.6 g/dl. Another term frequently used in place of low hemoglobin is anemia, or the person is described as being anemic. Some of the more common causes of anemia are as follows: 1  Nutritional (iron, folic acid, or vitamin B 12 deficiency [ pernicious anemia 2  ]). Gastrointestinal blood loss (ulcers, colon cancer). 3  Kidney problems.
Definition. A low hemoglobin count is a commonly seen blood test result. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel. If it gets more severe and causes symptoms, your low hemoglobin count may indicate you have anemia. A low hemoglobin count is generally defined as less than 13.5 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter (135 grams per liter) of blood for men and less than 12 grams per deciliter (120 grams per liter) for women.
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells.