A plant with a non-woody stem. The upper parts will die back at the end of the growing season. This category is subdivided into herbs with mostly compound leaves, herbs with simple mostly alternate leaves and herbs with simple mostly opposite leaves. Compound leaves. 
monocot. shortened forms of monocotyledon. monocotyledon. A flowering plant having one cotyledon or seed-leaf in the embryo. cotyledon. The primary leaf in the embryo of the higher plants ...; the seed-leaf. The number of cotyledons in the seed serves as an important basis of classification of angiosperms into monocotyledons... 1 Monocot leaves tend to have parallel veins; in dicots the veins are netted. 2  Monocot floral parts are in multiples of 3; dicots are based on 4's or 5's. 3  The vascular bundles in monocots stems are scattered; in dicots they form a ring surrounding the pith.
Submit. Dicots are one of the two main groups of flowering plants; the other is monocots. One major distinction is that dicots have two cotyledon, or embryonic, seed leaves. Monocots have only one. Another is that the flower parts--petals, stamen and so on are in multiples of four or five. In monocots, the flower parts are in multiples of three. Magnolias, honeysuckle and poppies are dicots. Lilies, irises and orchids are among the monocots.
1 Monocots have one cotyledon. 2  Monocot leaves tend to have parallel veins; in dicots the veins are netted. 3  Monocot floral parts are in multiples of 3; dicots are based on 4's or 5's. 4  The vascular bundles in monocots stems are scattered; in dicots they form a ring surrounding the pith. 1 Monocot leaves tend to have parallel veins; in dicots the veins are netted. 2  Monocot floral parts are in multiples of 3; dicots are based on 4's or 5's. 3  The vascular bundles in monocots stems are scattered; in dicots they form a ring surrounding the pith.
Best Answer: Who cares if a plant is a monocot or dicot? It might not seem very important to know the difference between monocotyledons and dicotyledons, but knowing can make our lives a lot easier. Many of the plants that we use most for food, like wheat, corn, oats, and rice, are monocots. We use the seeds of these plants to make cold cereal, bread, pasta.
1 Monocot pollen has a single furrow or pore through the outer layer (monosulcate); dicot pollen is mostly with three furrows or pores. 2  Monocots lack secondary growth leading to woody plants; dicots are not so restricted. 1 Monocot leaves tend to have parallel veins; in dicots the veins are netted. 2  Monocot floral parts are in multiples of 3; dicots are based on 4's or 5's. 3  The vascular bundles in monocots stems are scattered; in dicots they form a ring surrounding the pith.
3. The vascular bundles in monocot plants are without intrafasicular cambium whereas in dicot the vascular bundles has cambium in between xylem and phloem. a monocot has a one seed cotyledon(the word mono means one)..while the dicot has a two seed cotyledon... what is the deifference between a monocot and a dicot? 1. A monocot plant has one cotyledon (scutellum) in its embryo whereas a dicot plant has two cotyledones. 2. A moncot pl … ant has generally isobilateral leaf with parallel venation whereas a diicot plant has dorsiventral leaf with reticulate venation
Yams are a monocot (a plant having one embryonic seed leaf) and from the Dioscoreaceae or Yam family. Sweet Potatoes, often called ‘yams’, are a dicot (a plant having two embryonic seed leaves) and are from the Convolvulacea or morning glory family.. There you have it. If you study further you will learn that the way a dicot reproduces is different than the way a monocot reproduces. In a small saucepan, combine the black beans, refried beans, salsa, chili powder, cumin, salt and pepper. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring often. Stir in the scallions and remove from heat. Cover and keep warm.