Cala Galdana Holidays. Laying claim to Menorca’s best-looking beach, with turquoise waters and powdery white sand, Cala Galdana is the ideal destination for a picture-perfect getaway in the Balearic Island sunshine. Known as the Queen of the Calas, Cala Galdana is a small, family-friendly resort nestled around a horseshoe cove with plenty of fun-filled activities to keep the whole family happy.
Cala Galdana is a beautiful, sheltered, safe and sandy beach on Menorca's south coast, and these apartments are just two minute's walk away. Bars, restaurants and shops are also within easy reach (five minute's walk) as are the buses which can take you to Ferrerias (ten minute's drive), the historic town of Ciutadella (twenty minutes) and the port, capital and airport of Mahon (forty minutes).
Lovely Villa with private pool located in the prestigious resort of Cala Galdana. Albe Villa stands in a very quiet and completely natural environment just 5 minutes walk from the spectacular and renowned beach which gives name to this area; Cala Galdana. … see more. Casa Cris is a cozy apartment with private pool located in the heart of the resort of Cala Galdana. The property has spectacular sea views, to the village and to the beach
Bed-linen and towels are change regulary. The apartments are located in Cala Galdana, street Es Riu, P-6; 2 minuts walking to the beach, and 4 minuts walking to the center (shopping, bars, restaurants, bus stop). The unspoilt beaches of Cala Mitjana and Cala Mitjaneta are just two kilometres away. Bars, restaurants and shops are also within easy reach (five minute's walk) as are the buses which can take you to Ferrerias (ten minute's drive), the historic town of Ciutadella (twenty minutes) and the port, capital and airport of Mahon (forty minutes).
Wonderful and Large villa with private pool located in the prestigious area of Cala Galdana on the south coast of Menorca. The property is located just a few minutes walk from the majestic and renowned beach of Cala Galdana. … see more. Casa Cris is a cozy apartment with private pool located in the heart of the resort of Cala Galdana. The property has spectacular sea views, to the village and to the
Deals About Related Destinations. Cala Galdana is a quiet holiday resort situated on the west of Menorca Island. Known as ‘The Queen of the Calas’, Cala Galdana has an abundance to attract the visitor and keep them happy. Cala Galdana is a blue flag beach, renowned for its calm waters, golden sand, and serene setting. It also has various facilities such as water sports, beach bars, restaurants, lifeguards, a sailing, and a scuba diving school. Find competitively low prices on all holidays to Cala Galdana online at A1travel.com or call one of our specialized agents
Check Availability. See all Cala Galdana Holidays. If you’re searching for a stress-free family break, holidays in Cala Galdana are the perfect choice. The beach is stunning with white sand and turquoise water, set against a geological backdrop of sheer limestone cliffs. Known as the Queen of the Calas, Cala Galdana is a small, family-friendly resort nestled around a horseshoe cove with plenty of fun-filled activities to keep the whole family happy.
Wonderful and spacious villa with private pool located in the prestigious area of Cala Galdana on the south coast of Menorca. The property is located just a few minutes walk from the majestic and renowned beach of Cala Galdana. Casa Cris is a cozy apartment with private pool located in the heart of the resort of Cala Galdana. The property has spectacular sea views, to the village and to the