12 years.   ----   In order to become an Obstetrician, you must first complete high school and all undergraduate pre-requisites. This usually includes a baccalaureate de … gree (4 years, at least). Then you must complete medical school (4 years) and a residency in Obstetrics/Gynecology (4 years). From the day you get to boot camp it is 13 weeks. You can sign up to become a Marine while you are still a senior in High school. You can do this up to 1 year in advance even … if you are 17, as long as you have parental consent.
Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. An aspiring neuroradiologist must first complete 4 years of undergraduate study to be eligible for medical school. In some cases, medical programs allow undergraduate studies to be combined with medical school in order to decrease the time it takes to become a licensed physician. Pursuing a fellowship is one of the last steps to becoming a neuroradiologist. A fellowship is similar to a residency in that it provides further specialization-in this case, in neuroradiology-for the
it takes approximatly 14 years to become a professional scientist depending on how long your taking the college classes. the most it has taken normal class taking students is … 15 years. to become a basic scientist it only takes 6 years and 2 months Answer: People are generally done high school by 18. A basic science degree takes another 4 to 5 years. A Masters degree an additional 2 to 3 and a Doctorate another 2 to 4 years. Professional accreditation requires 2 to 3 years of applicable work after receiving a degree. EMployers generally want Scientists to have a Masters or Doctorate.
It typically takes about 12 years to become a neurologist. 4 years are spent as an undergraduate working toward a bachelor's degree, and then another 4 years are spent in medical school. After medical school, graduates will then undertake a one year internship, followed by a 3 year residency program. 
How long it takes to become a pilot depends on a couple of factors.  One being the type of pilot you wish to be, and the other being the  amount of time you put into it. One … who wishes to fly their own  plane, can finishing training in around eight months. If they put  in a lot of flight time. From the day you get to boot camp it is 13 weeks. You can sign up to become a Marine while you are still a senior in High school. You can do this up to 1 year in advance even … if you are 17, as long as you have parental consent.
Radiologists also need to earn a state-based license before they can legally practice. It takes at least 13 years of postsecondary education and clinical training to become a diagnostic radiologist. That includes a 4-year bachelor education, 4 years of medical school, a year-long internship, and 4 years of residency. Subspecialists may spend an additional year or two in a targeted fellowship for a total of 14-15 years in training. In the United States, aspiring physicians must complete four years of undergraduate education and four years of medical school, and radiologists are no exception
Step 2: Complete a Medical School Program. Medical school typically takes 4 years to complete. In most cases, the first 2 years introduce medical concepts, biology and clinical sciences in classrooms. The final 2 years shift towards clinical settings and learning about various specialties within medicine. Pursuing a fellowship is one of the last steps to becoming a neuroradiologist. A fellowship is similar to a residency in that it provides further specialization-in this case, in neuroradiology-for the physician.
Become a Neuroradiologist: Step-by-Step Career Guide. Learn how to become a neuroradiologist. Research the education and career requirements, training and licensure information and experience required for starting a career in neuroradiology. Pursuing a fellowship is one of the last steps to becoming a neuroradiologist. A fellowship is similar to a residency in that it provides further specialization-in this case, in neuroradiology-for the physician.
Similar experiential requirements are imposed in other countries as well. To become a neuroradiologist, a medical degree is required. In the United States, this is obtained by successfully completing four years of undergraduate studies and four years of medical school. While the requirements to become a neuroradiologist vary among and even sometimes within countries, a career in neuroradiology typically requires many years of study, including a bachelor's degree and a medical degree.
it takes approximatly 14 years to become a professional scientist depending on how long your taking the college classes. the most it has taken normal class taking students is … 15 years. to become a basic scientist it only takes 6 years and 2 months Answer: People are generally done high school by 18. From the day you get to boot camp it is 13 weeks. You can sign up to become a Marine while you are still a senior in High school. You can do this up to 1 year in advance even … if you are 17, as long as you have parental consent.