The Burt’s Bees lip balm is wonderful for your lips anytime of the year. I personally love the mango flavor. Burt’s Bees in natural and because it has the natural bees wax in it, it should be the only lip balm for your lips. It is a little more expensive then more cheaper lim balms but this one works and lasts for months! I would recommend this to anybody. Kayla Neff
ChapStick is a brand name of lip balm manufactured by Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and used in many countries worldwide. It is intended to help treat and prevent chapped lips, hence the name. Many varieties also include sunscreen in order to prevent sunburn. Any given flavor of ChapStick may contain camphor, beeswax, menthol, petrolatum, phenol, vitamin E, aloe, and oxybenzone. However, there are hundreds of variants of ChapStick, each with its own composition.
I have used Burt's Beeswax Lip Balm for at least eight years--back when the only place you could get Burt's Beeswax products was in Whole Foods. Now every Walgreens seems to have a complete Burt's Bees kiosk. 3.0 out of 5 stars I love Burt's Bee's products...but not this one. By Andrea Polk on November 20, 2008. The Burt's Bees Lip Balm Beeswax Tube is a product I fully expected to love, just like the plethora of other Burt's Bee's products I've tried...but I didn't. First the scent: like wax
Beeswax Lip Balm is the original lip care formulation from the well-known natural skin care company, Burt’s Bees. It is now an established brand name in the United States, and Beeswax Lip Balm has been one of their most-sought after products since 1991. The ingredients of the lip balm are coconut oil, beeswax, tocopheryl acetate, tocopherol (vitamin E), peppermint oil, lanolin, comfrey root extract and rosemary extract.
Chap stick redirects here. For the lip balm brand, see ChapStick. Homemade lip balms. Lip balm or lip salve is a wax-like substance applied topically to the lips of the mouth to moisturize and relieve chapped or dry lips, angular cheilitis, stomatitis, or cold sores. Lip balm often contains beeswax or carnauba wax, camphor, cetyl alcohol, lanolin, paraffin, and petrolatum, among other ingredients. Lip balm can be applied where a finger is used to apply it to the lips, or in a lipstick-style tube from which it can be applied directly.
Beeswax (Cera Alba) is a natural wax produced by bees to build the walls of their honeycomb. What it does. Beeswax is a thickening agent. It thickens the oil portion of solid products (like lipsticks), giving them structure and keeping them solid. It stiffens eye makeup products without hardening them. What it is. 
We like to use lip balm to try and soothe our lips and keep them from becoming dry and cracked, but ingredients used in certain brands actually cause the problem rather than solve it. This keeps us coming back for more. Here's what you need to look out for when buying the stuff so you don't want up with a bad brand. 
Burt’s Bees Lip Balm, which is said to contain natural ingredients such as beeswax, rosemary extract, coconut oil, comfrey root extract, lanolin and peppermint oil, promises to treat your lip problems like cracks, chaps, and burning sensations. Burt’s Bees in natural and because it has the natural bees wax in it, it should be the only lip balm for your lips. It is a little more expensive then more cheaper lim balms but this one works and lasts for months! I would recommend this to anybody.
Burt’s Bees Beeswax Lip Balm is proof that you don’t need to spend a lot of money just for lip care. It is very effective in softening the lips and making it smoother. It is a great formulation for protecting the lips and addressing cracking or chapping. The ingredients of the lip balm are coconut oil, beeswax, tocopheryl acetate, tocopherol (vitamin E), peppermint oil, lanolin, comfrey root extract and rosemary extract.