Surface area is the amount of cell membrane available for diffusion. So for a cell, surface area actually represents how much diffusion that can happen at one time. Whereas volume is the amount of cytoplasm contained within the cell membrane. So for a cell, volume is how long It takes to get from the membrane to the center of the cell by diffusion. Therefore, to perform diffusion efficiently, there must be an adequate ratio between the cell’s surface area and its volume
The surface area of a cube is calculated to be 24 cm 2. The volume is calculated to be 8 cm 3. The ratio of surface are to volume would be: 24/8 or 3/1 or 3:1 5. After 10 minutes, remove the agar blocks from the sodium hydroxide and blot them dry. Then use the razor blade to slice each block in half. When one of these larger cells divides into two smaller cells, the rate of growth again in-creases. In this investigation, you will explore one of the factors that limits cell size and growth rate.
I hope this analogy helped. There is a relationship between surface area of the cell, volume of the solute and the overall diffusion rate. the greater the surface area and smaller the volumer, the faster the diffusion rate. The smaller the surface are and greater solute volume the slower the diffusion rate. I hope this helps! Best of Luck! 
The surface area to volume ratio of a cell affects the rate of  diffusion in that the higher the ratio, the faster the rate of  diffusion. This is a directly proportional re … lationship. Answered. In Biology. 
So generally, the relationship between the rate of diffusion and cell size is that the rate of diffusion stays the same, but as all the cells are small, diffusion occurs quicker throughout the cells, than in larger cells. Extracts from this document... Introduction. Investigating the relationship between cell size and rate of diffusion Aim: To plan and carry out an investigation to show the relationship between volume, surface area, and diffusion; and to demonstrate, using diffusion, why the size of cells is limited.
We want to examine whether ad how the rate of diffusion over time is dependent on the cubes surface area to volume ratio (SA:V). Smaller cubes have bigger SA:V than big cubes. We know that e.g. cells seek to have the biggest surface area possible and a small volume. The experiment results seen on the graph (trend line) show that the bigger is the surface area to volume ratio, the bigger is the percentage volume of diffusion, so the rate of diffusion of pigment from the agar cube. Looking at the data we can notice that smaller cubes (of smaller volume) have bigger SA:V
Surface to volume ratios: Relationship to cell size As cells increase in size, the surface area and volume do not usually increase proportionally to length. The greater the diameter of a single-celled organism, the lower the surface area to volume ratio. It is this relationship that restricts the size of a particular cell. Cells must be able to take up and eliminate substances rapidly and efficiently. Compare the following graphs showing the relationship between the volume and surface area of a cube (A) , and the surface area: volume ratio and length of the side of the cube (B). It is clear from these graphs that as the length of the side of the cube increases, the surface area: volume ratio decreases. (A) (B)