any of the cells of skeletal or cardiac muscle tissue. Skeletal muscle fibers are cylindrical polynuclear cells containing contracting myofibrils, across which run transverse striations, enclosed in a sarcolemma. The primary effects of dietary fiber are to increase the bulk of the stool and make it softer by taking up water as it passes through the colon, and to absorb organic wastes and toxins and carry them out of the intestinal tract.
Noun. 1. muscle fibre-an elongated contractile cell that forms the muscles of the body. muscle cell, muscle fiber. fibre, fiber-any of several elongated, threadlike cells (especially a muscle fiber or a nerve fiber). muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. 
It is not the same as the anatomical cross-sectional area (ACSA), which is the area of the crossection of a muscle perpendicular to its longitudinal axis. In a non-pennate muscle the fibers are parallel to the longitudinal axis, and therefore PCSA and ACSA coincide. In muscle physiology, physiological cross-sectional area (PCSA) is the area of the cross section of a muscle perpendicular to its fibers, generally at its largest point. It is typically used to describe the contraction properties of pennate muscles.
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion. Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary.
The definition of a muscle belly 1  : The scientific definition: A muscle belly is basically the sum of all the muscle fibers in any given muscle. 2  These muscle fibers are grouped into bundles of around 150 fibers called fasciculi. 
A motor unit consists of one somatic efferent (motor) neuron and all of the muscle fibers (cells) that it innervates. In the figure to the right, two motor units are illustrated diagrammatically. Notice that after an efferent axon enters the muscle, it branches and forms synapses with a number of muscle fibers. In the chart, refer to the first line in purple, which indicates the size of the efferent neurons, which can be small, intermediate or large. Developmentally, the type of the efferent neuron determines the characteristics of the muscle fibers
Because the synapse is so large, here is the overall rule that governs the functioning of a single motor unit: one action potential in the efferent neuron leads to one action potential in all of the muscle fibers in the motor unit. In the chart, refer to the first line in purple, which indicates the size of the efferent neurons, which can be small, intermediate or large. Developmentally, the type of the efferent neuron determines the characteristics of the muscle fibers that it innervates.
Medical Definition of FIBER. 1. : a thread or a threadlike structure or object: as a: a strand of nerve tissue: axon, dendrite b: one of the filaments composing most of the intercellular matrix of connective tissue c: one of the elongated contractile cells of muscle tissue. 2. 
Example Sentences Including 'muscle fibre'. An aperture opens at the base of the carapace and you get a glimpse of rubbery flesh which really isn't skin but muscle fibre.