The process of using a geo-fence is called geo-fencing, and one example of usage involves a location-aware device of a location-based service (LBS) user entering or exiting a geo-fence. This activity could trigger an alert to the device's user as well as messaging to the geo-fence operator.
Geofencing is the use of the Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite network and/or local radio-frequency identifiers (such as Wi-Fi nodes or Bluetooth beacons) to create virtual boundaries around a location.
How-To Geek. The term is popping up more frequently in news articles, appearing in product manuals, and highlighted as a feature in tons of mobile applications, but what exactly is geofencing?
A geo-fence is a virtual perimeter for a real-world geographic area. A geo-fence could be dynamically generated—as in a radius around a store or point location, or a geo-fence can be a predefined set of boundaries, like school attendance zones or neighborhood boundaries.
Being the number one provider of GPS vehicle tracking devices means we are different, and one of the ways we set ourselves apart from the competition is our exclusive array of benefits and features offered. This week we are going to take a closer look at one of the most mentionable features--àThe àthe-Geo. fence
One of the early commercial uses of geofencing was in the livestock industry wherein a handful of cattle in a herd would be equipped with GPS units and if the herd moved outside of geographic boundaries (the geofence) set by the rancher then the rancher would receive an alert.
Geo-fencing (geofencing) is a feature in a software program that uses the global positioning system (GPS) or radio frequency identification (RFID) to define geographical boundaries. A geofence is a virtual barrier.
A geographic zone that is defined for tracking purposes. When a tracking device in a vehicle or a person with a smartphone tracking app enters or leaves a geofence, the device sends a signal via e-mail or texting to a recipient.