Calcium nitrate is the only water soluble form of calcium. Because it is also a source of nitrogen, it is commonly used in liquid fertilizer recipes to deliver both of these essential nutrients to growing plants. Complete Liquid Fertilizer. Calcium nitrate is dissolved into a dilute solution because, if too concentrated, it can form insoluble precipitates with magnesium and phosphate salts.
Calcium nitrate is used in set accelerating concrete admixtures. This use with concrete and mortar is based on two effects. The calcium ion accelerates formation of calcium hydroxide and thus precipitation and setting. This effect is used also in cold weather concreting agents as well as some combined plasticizers. The nitrate ion leads to formation of iron hydroxide, whose protective layer reduces corrosion of the concrete reinforcement.
Calcium nitrate is used in waste water pre-conditioning for odour emission prevention. The waste water pre-conditioning is based on establishing an anoxic biology in the waste water system. In the presence of nitrate, the metabolism for sulfates stops, thus preventing formation of hydrogen sulphide. The calcium ion accelerates formation of calcium hydroxide and thus precipitation and setting. This effect is used also in cold weather concreting agents as well as some combined plasticizers. The nitrate ion leads to formation of iron hydroxide, whose protective layer reduces corrosion of the concrete reinforcement.
Calcium nitrate, also called Norgessalpeter (Norwegian saltpeter), is the inorganic compound with the formula Ca(NO 3) 2. This colourless salt absorbs moisture from the air and is commonly found as a tetrahydrate. It is mainly used as a component in fertilizers but has other applications. The calcium ion accelerates formation of calcium hydroxide and thus precipitation and setting. This effect is used also in cold weather concreting agents as well as some combined plasticizers. The nitrate ion leads to formation of iron hydroxide, whose protective layer reduces corrosion of the concrete reinforcement.
The synthetic substance known as calcium nitrate is a “double salt.” Manufacturers produce calcium nitrate by applying nitric acid to limestone, then treating the substance with ammonia. For this purpose, common calcium formulations include calcium citrate and calcium carbonate. The mineral is also readily available in foods such as milk, milk-based foods like cheese and yogurt, tofu, blackstrap molasses and dark, leafy vegetables.
Calcium nitrate is used as a nitrogenous fertilizer, as a corrosive inhibitor in diesel fuels and as a component in explosives. Calcium nitrate is the primary source of water soluble calcium in hydroponics. Prolonged use in other growing media ca … n result in a gradual increase in pH because the negatively charged nitrate ions are taken up faster than the positively charged calcium ions.
Haifa Cal is a range of water soluble calcium nitrate fertilizers, which are highly efficient sources of available calcium and nitrogen for plants under all growth conditions. Calcium is a “quality nutrient” that enhances quality and prolongs shelf life of the yields. 
However, we know that cal-cium 1) is a multifunctional nutrient inthe physiology of crop plants and 2) inthe soluble form influences availabilityand uptake. Nitrogen-use efficiency ofurea-containing fertilizers is also in-creased with soluble calcium sourcessuch as calcium nitrate. Classical visual symptoms in calciumdeficient plants include 1) death ofgrowing points, 2) abnormally darkgreen foliage, 3) premature shedding ofblossoms and buds, and 4) weakenedstems. 
Calcium nitrate is used as a quick-release organic fertilizer that adds both calcium and nitrogen to soil. Quick-release fertilizer usually dissolves into the soil in four to six weeks. Slow-release fertilizers, typically coated with resin or sulfur, are available to plants over weeks or months. 