Condominiums have governing condominium associations. A condominium is a type of housing, usually attached, where the owners own their unit and a portion of the private land that it sits on, the amenities like swimming pools, and clubhouses.
Commercial condominiums include retail, office and industrial properties. A portion (unit) of a larger building can be purchased from the owner/developer of the building, either for owner use or as an investment property to be leased to others. Commercial condominium units typically range in size from 1,000 to 10,000 square feet. Normally properties of this size are only available on a rental basis by institutional landlords. The owner of the condominium unit holds title to the premises and has full control over any and all elements within the unit
Find the flood risk for your business now using our One-Step Flood Risk Profile. Flood insurance is available to homeowners, renters, condo owners/renters, and commercial owners/renters. Costs vary depending on how much insurance is purchased, what it covers, and the property's flood risk. 
The same special provisions for residential condo leases should be included in the commercial condominium lease as well. And, special attention should be paid to the “use” provision,that is, the description of what commercial enterprise the condo can be used for. For instance, if a tenant wants to open a delicatessen, the declaration needs to be checked to make sure that it does not limit commercial use to non-food businesses. State law can have major impact on a condo lease. In some states, condos can be leased for residential purposes only, while in others they can be leased for residential and commercial uses, and in still other states there’s no mention of commercial use.
A condominium, frequently shortened to condo, is the form of housing tenure and other real property where a specified part of a piece of real estate (usually of an apartment house) is individually owned. Scholars have traced the concept of selling part of a building to a first century Babylonian record. Condominium is a legal term used in the United States and in most provinces of Canada. In Australia, New Zealand, and the Canadian province of British Columbia, it is referred to as  strata title .
Buying a commercial condo can be a great move for a business, from the tax advantages, cost savings and predictability in expenses, it makes sense in many situations. Here are ten pitfalls to avoid when buying an office condominium space. 
The rules governing all of those condo associations are dictated by state law. A law governing condo associations could cover residential, commercial, and mixed–use condos, or it could expressly state that it doesn't cover some types of condo associations. Chances are your state's condo act will incorporate commercial condos. But there might be additional provisions you'd be subject to unless the condo act specifically exempts you from them.. Rosenbeck has another caveat for commercial condo associations. Most commercial condos associations use a management company that just does commercial space rental, she says. But those companies may not know the intricacies of association management, open meeting rules, and annual meeting requirement
Welcome. Commercial Condominium Management Company was incorporated in 1983 by its President, Mr. John Motz, to specialize in the management of commercial condominium associations throughout the Washington Metropolitan area. 
A residential condo association typically contains only residential units. However, condo associations that are primarily residential may also be called mixed use because they also include some units for commercial owners (and commercial can encompass retail, restaurant, or office space). There are also condo associations whose owners are exclusively commercial entitie